frameworks/atlas/techniques/impact/external-harms/external-harms-AI-IP-theft.md, before:

---
id: external-harms-AI-IP-theft
title: "AML.T0048.004: AI Intellectual Property Theft"
sidebar_label: "AI Intellectual Property Theft"
sidebar_position: 48005
---

# AML.T0048.004: AI Intellectual Property Theft

Adversaries may exfiltrate AI artifacts to steal intellectual property and cause economic harm to the victim organization.

Proprietary training data is costly to collect and annotate and may be a target for [Exfiltration](/tactics/AML.TA0010) and theft.

AIaaS providers charge for use of their API.
An adversary who has stolen a model via [Exfiltration](/tactics/AML.TA0010) or via [Extract AI Model](/techniques/AML.T0024.002) now has unlimited use of that service without paying the owner of the intellectual property.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0048.004
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-09
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0048 — External Harms

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/impact|Impact]]

## Case Studies (4)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/attack-on-machine-translation-services|Attack on Machine Translation Services]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/arbitrary-code-execution-with-google-colab|Arbitrary Code Execution with Google Colab]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/organization-confusion-on-hugging-face|Organization Confusion on Hugging Face]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/ai-model-tampering-via-supply-chain-attack|AI Model Tampering via Supply Chain Attack]]

Commit message:

Add ATLAS mitigations: 35 mitigation pages, bidirectional technique↔mitigation links
- New mitigations/ directory with all 35 ATLAS mitigations (AML.M0000–AML.M0034)
- Each mitigation page lists linked techniques with usage context
- 62 technique pages updated with Mitigations section linking back
- 246 total technique↔mitigation cross-references for graph connectivity
- Includes agent-specific mitigations: HITL, tool permissions, memory hardening, segmentation

frameworks/atlas/techniques/impact/external-harms/external-harms-AI-IP-theft.md, after:

---
id: external-harms-AI-IP-theft
title: "AML.T0048.004: AI Intellectual Property Theft"
sidebar_label: "AI Intellectual Property Theft"
sidebar_position: 48005
---

# AML.T0048.004: AI Intellectual Property Theft

Adversaries may exfiltrate AI artifacts to steal intellectual property and cause economic harm to the victim organization.

Proprietary training data is costly to collect and annotate and may be a target for [Exfiltration](/tactics/AML.TA0010) and theft.

AIaaS providers charge for use of their API.
An adversary who has stolen a model via [Exfiltration](/tactics/AML.TA0010) or via [Extract AI Model](/techniques/AML.T0024.002) now has unlimited use of that service without paying the owner of the intellectual property.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0048.004
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-09
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0048 — External Harms

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/impact|Impact]]

## Mitigations (3)

- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/control-access-to-ai-models-and-data-at-rest|AML.M0005: Control Access to AI Models and Data at Rest]] — Access controls can prevent theft of intellectual property.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/encrypt-sensitive-information|AML.M0012: Encrypt Sensitive Information]] — Protect machine learning artifacts with encryption.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/ai-model-distribution-methods|AML.M0017: AI Model Distribution Methods]] — Avoiding  the deployment of models to edge devices reduces an adversary's potential access to models or AI artifacts.

## Case Studies (4)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/attack-on-machine-translation-services|Attack on Machine Translation Services]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/arbitrary-code-execution-with-google-colab|Arbitrary Code Execution with Google Colab]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/organization-confusion-on-hugging-face|Organization Confusion on Hugging Face]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/ai-model-tampering-via-supply-chain-attack|AI Model Tampering via Supply Chain Attack]]
