frameworks/atlas/techniques/discovery/discover-ai-agent-configuration/discover-agent-config-embedded-knowledge.md, before:

---
id: discover-ai-agent-configuration-embedded-knowledge
title: "AML.T0084.000: Embedded Knowledge"
sidebar_label: "Embedded Knowledge"
sidebar_position: 12
---

# AML.T0084.000: Embedded Knowledge

Adversaries may attempt to discover the data sources a particular agent can access.  The AI agent's configuration may reveal data sources or knowledge.

The embedded knowledge may include sensitive or proprietary material such as intellectual property, customer data, internal policies, or even credentials. By mapping what knowledge an agent has access to, an adversary can better understand the AI agent's role and potentially expose confidential information or pinpoint high-value targets for further exploitation.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0084.000
- **Created:** September 30, 2025
- **Last Modified:** September 30, 2025
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*

## Case Studies (1)

The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/data-exfiltration-via-agent-tools-in-copilot-studio|AML.CS0037: Data Exfiltration via Agent Tools in Copilot Studio]]

The researchers discover the AI agent has access to a “Customer Support Account Owners.csv” data source.

## References

MITRE Corporation. *Embedded Knowledge (AML.T0084.000)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0084.000

Commit message:

Sync ATLAS v5.4.0: 15 new files, 3 stale stubs removed, full rebuild via kb-atlas-sync.py
- 219 managed files: 16 tactics, 16 tactic stubs, 135 techniques, 52 case studies
- New techniques: deploy-ai-agent, ai-agent C2, escape-to-host, publish-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, exploitation-for-credential/defense-evasion
- New sub-techniques: user-execution-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, user-execution-malicious-link
- New case studies: OpenClaw CVEs, Claude computer use, Cursor MCP, Amazon Q
- Deleted stale index stubs: tactics.md, techniques.md, case-studies.md
- Version tracked in .atlas-version

frameworks/atlas/techniques/discovery/discover-ai-agent-configuration/discover-agent-config-embedded-knowledge.md, after:

---
id: discover-agent-config-embedded-knowledge
title: "AML.T0084.002: Activation Triggers"
sidebar_label: "Activation Triggers"
sidebar_position: 84003
---

# AML.T0084.002: Activation Triggers

Adversaries may discover keywords or other triggers (such as incoming emails, documents being added, incoming message, or other workflows) that activate an agent and may cause it to run additional actions.

Understanding these triggers can reveal how the AI agent is activated and controlled. This may also expose additional paths for compromise, as an adversary could attempt to trigger the agent from outside its environment and drive it to perform unintended or malicious actions.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0084.002
- **Created:** 2025-09-30
- **Last Modified:** 2025-09-30
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0084 — Discover AI Agent Configuration

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/discovery|Discovery]]

## Case Studies (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/data-exfiltration-via-agent-tools-in-copilot-studio|Data Exfiltration via Agent Tools in Copilot Studio]]
