frameworks/atlas/techniques/discovery/discover-ai-agent-configuration/discover-agent-config-activation-triggers.md, before:

---
id: discover-ai-agent-configuration-activation-triggers
title: "AML.T0084.002: Activation Triggers"
sidebar_label: "Activation Triggers"
sidebar_position: 14
---

# AML.T0084.002: Activation Triggers

Adversaries may discover keywords or other triggers (such as incoming emails, documents being added, incoming message, or other workflows) that activate an agent and may cause it to run additional actions.

Understanding these triggers can reveal how the AI agent is activated and controlled. This may also expose additional paths for compromise, as an adversary could attempt to trigger the agent from outside its environment and drive it to perform unintended or malicious actions.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0084.002
- **Created:** September 30, 2025
- **Last Modified:** September 30, 2025
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*

## Case Studies (1)

The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/data-exfiltration-via-agent-tools-in-copilot-studio|AML.CS0037: Data Exfiltration via Agent Tools in Copilot Studio]]

The researchers infer that the AI agent is activated when receiving an email.

## References

MITRE Corporation. *Activation Triggers (AML.T0084.002)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0084.002

Commit message:

Sync ATLAS v5.4.0: 15 new files, 3 stale stubs removed, full rebuild via kb-atlas-sync.py
- 219 managed files: 16 tactics, 16 tactic stubs, 135 techniques, 52 case studies
- New techniques: deploy-ai-agent, ai-agent C2, escape-to-host, publish-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, exploitation-for-credential/defense-evasion
- New sub-techniques: user-execution-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, user-execution-malicious-link
- New case studies: OpenClaw CVEs, Claude computer use, Cursor MCP, Amazon Q
- Deleted stale index stubs: tactics.md, techniques.md, case-studies.md
- Version tracked in .atlas-version

frameworks/atlas/techniques/discovery/discover-ai-agent-configuration/discover-agent-config-activation-triggers.md, after:

---
id: discover-agent-config-activation-triggers
title: "AML.T0084.001: Tool Definitions"
sidebar_label: "Tool Definitions"
sidebar_position: 84002
---

# AML.T0084.001: Tool Definitions

Adversaries may discover the tools the AI agent has access to. By identifying which tools are available, the adversary can understand what actions may be executed through the agent and what additional resources it can reach. This knowledge may reveal access to external data sources such as OneDrive or SharePoint, or expose exfiltration paths like the ability to send emails, helping adversaries identify AI agents that provide the greatest value or opportunity for attack.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0084.001
- **Created:** 2025-09-30
- **Last Modified:** 2025-09-30
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0084 — Discover AI Agent Configuration

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/discovery|Discovery]]

## Case Studies (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/data-exfiltration-via-agent-tools-in-copilot-studio|Data Exfiltration via Agent Tools in Copilot Studio]]
