frameworks/atlas/techniques/discovery/discover-ai-agent-configuration/discover-agent-config-tool-definitions.md, before:

---
id: discover-ai-agent-configuration-tool-definitions
title: "AML.T0084.001: Tool Definitions"
sidebar_label: "Tool Definitions"
sidebar_position: 13
---

# AML.T0084.001: Tool Definitions

Adversaries may discover the tools the AI agent has access to. By identifying which tools are available, the adversary can understand what actions may be executed through the agent and what additional resources it can reach. This knowledge may reveal access to external data sources such as OneDrive or SharePoint, or expose exfiltration paths like the ability to send emails, helping adversaries identify AI agents that provide the greatest value or opportunity for attack.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0084.001
- **Created:** September 30, 2025
- **Last Modified:** September 30, 2025
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*

## Case Studies (1)

The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/data-exfiltration-via-agent-tools-in-copilot-studio|AML.CS0037: Data Exfiltration via Agent Tools in Copilot Studio]]

The researchers infer that the AI agent has a tool for sending emails.

## References

MITRE Corporation. *Tool Definitions (AML.T0084.001)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0084.001

Commit message:

Sync ATLAS v5.4.0: 15 new files, 3 stale stubs removed, full rebuild via kb-atlas-sync.py
- 219 managed files: 16 tactics, 16 tactic stubs, 135 techniques, 52 case studies
- New techniques: deploy-ai-agent, ai-agent C2, escape-to-host, publish-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, exploitation-for-credential/defense-evasion
- New sub-techniques: user-execution-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, user-execution-malicious-link
- New case studies: OpenClaw CVEs, Claude computer use, Cursor MCP, Amazon Q
- Deleted stale index stubs: tactics.md, techniques.md, case-studies.md
- Version tracked in .atlas-version

frameworks/atlas/techniques/discovery/discover-ai-agent-configuration/discover-agent-config-tool-definitions.md, after:

---
id: discover-agent-config-tool-definitions
title: "AML.T0084.000: Embedded Knowledge"
sidebar_label: "Embedded Knowledge"
sidebar_position: 84001
---

# AML.T0084.000: Embedded Knowledge

Adversaries may attempt to discover the data sources a particular agent can access.  The AI agent's configuration may reveal data sources or knowledge.

The embedded knowledge may include sensitive or proprietary material such as intellectual property, customer data, internal policies, or even credentials. By mapping what knowledge an agent has access to, an adversary can better understand the AI agent's role and potentially expose confidential information or pinpoint high-value targets for further exploitation.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0084.000
- **Created:** 2025-09-30
- **Last Modified:** 2025-09-30
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0084 — Discover AI Agent Configuration

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/discovery|Discovery]]

## Case Studies (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/data-exfiltration-via-agent-tools-in-copilot-studio|Data Exfiltration via Agent Tools in Copilot Studio]]
