frameworks/atlas/techniques/persistence/manipulate-ai-model/manipulate-AI-model-modify-architecture.md, before:

---
id: manipulate-AI-model-modify-architecture
title: "AML.T0018.001: Modify AI Model Architecture"
sidebar_label: "Modify AI Model Architecture"
sidebar_position: 18002
---

# AML.T0018.001: Modify AI Model Architecture

Adversaries may directly modify an AI model's architecture to re-define it's behavior. This can include adding or removing layers as well as adding pre or post-processing operations.

The effects could include removing the ability to predict certain classes, adding erroneous operations to increase computation costs, or degrading performance. Additionally, a separate adversary-defined network could be injected into the computation graph, which can change the behavior based on the inputs, effectively creating a backdoor.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0018.001
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2024-04-11
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0018 — Manipulate AI Model

## Tactics (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/persistence|Persistence]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/ai-attack-staging|AI Attack Staging]]

## Case Studies (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/backdoor-attack-on-deep-learning-models-in-mobile-apps|Backdoor Attack on Deep Learning Models in Mobile Apps]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/ai-model-tampering-via-supply-chain-attack|AI Model Tampering via Supply Chain Attack]]

Commit message:

Add ATLAS mitigations: 35 mitigation pages, bidirectional technique↔mitigation links
- New mitigations/ directory with all 35 ATLAS mitigations (AML.M0000–AML.M0034)
- Each mitigation page lists linked techniques with usage context
- 62 technique pages updated with Mitigations section linking back
- 246 total technique↔mitigation cross-references for graph connectivity
- Includes agent-specific mitigations: HITL, tool permissions, memory hardening, segmentation

frameworks/atlas/techniques/persistence/manipulate-ai-model/manipulate-AI-model-modify-architecture.md, after:

---
id: manipulate-AI-model-modify-architecture
title: "AML.T0018.001: Modify AI Model Architecture"
sidebar_label: "Modify AI Model Architecture"
sidebar_position: 18002
---

# AML.T0018.001: Modify AI Model Architecture

Adversaries may directly modify an AI model's architecture to re-define it's behavior. This can include adding or removing layers as well as adding pre or post-processing operations.

The effects could include removing the ability to predict certain classes, adding erroneous operations to increase computation costs, or degrading performance. Additionally, a separate adversary-defined network could be injected into the computation graph, which can change the behavior based on the inputs, effectively creating a backdoor.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0018.001
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2024-04-11
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0018 — Manipulate AI Model

## Tactics (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/persistence|Persistence]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/ai-attack-staging|AI Attack Staging]]

## Mitigations (3)

- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/control-access-to-ai-models-and-data-at-rest|AML.M0005: Control Access to AI Models and Data at Rest]] — Access controls can prevent tampering with ML artifacts and prevent unauthorized copying.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/validate-ai-model|AML.M0008: Validate AI Model]] — Ensure that acquired models do not respond to potential backdoor triggers or adversarial influence.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/code-signing|AML.M0013: Code Signing]] — Code signing provides a guarantee that the model has not been manipulated after signing took place.

## Case Studies (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/backdoor-attack-on-deep-learning-models-in-mobile-apps|Backdoor Attack on Deep Learning Models in Mobile Apps]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/ai-model-tampering-via-supply-chain-attack|AI Model Tampering via Supply Chain Attack]]
