frameworks/atlas/techniques/persistence/manipulate-ai-model/manipulate-AI-model-poison.md, before:

---
id: manipulate-AI-model-poison
title: "AML.T0018.000: Poison AI Model"
sidebar_label: "Poison AI Model"
sidebar_position: 18001
---

# AML.T0018.000: Poison AI Model

Adversaries may manipulate an AI model's weights to change it's behavior or performance, resulting in a poisoned model.
Adversaries may poison a model by directly manipulating its weights, training the model on poisoned data, further fine-tuning the model, or otherwise interfering with its training process. 

The change in behavior of poisoned models may be limited to targeted categories in predictive AI models, or targeted topics, concepts, or facts in generative AI models, or aim for a general performance degradation.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0018.000
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-12-23
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0018 — Manipulate AI Model

## Tactics (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/persistence|Persistence]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/ai-attack-staging|AI Attack Staging]]

## Case Studies (3)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/poisongpt|PoisonGPT]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/organization-confusion-on-hugging-face|Organization Confusion on Hugging Face]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/ai-model-tampering-via-supply-chain-attack|AI Model Tampering via Supply Chain Attack]]

Commit message:

Add ATLAS mitigations: 35 mitigation pages, bidirectional technique↔mitigation links
- New mitigations/ directory with all 35 ATLAS mitigations (AML.M0000–AML.M0034)
- Each mitigation page lists linked techniques with usage context
- 62 technique pages updated with Mitigations section linking back
- 246 total technique↔mitigation cross-references for graph connectivity
- Includes agent-specific mitigations: HITL, tool permissions, memory hardening, segmentation

frameworks/atlas/techniques/persistence/manipulate-ai-model/manipulate-AI-model-poison.md, after:

---
id: manipulate-AI-model-poison
title: "AML.T0018.000: Poison AI Model"
sidebar_label: "Poison AI Model"
sidebar_position: 18001
---

# AML.T0018.000: Poison AI Model

Adversaries may manipulate an AI model's weights to change it's behavior or performance, resulting in a poisoned model.
Adversaries may poison a model by directly manipulating its weights, training the model on poisoned data, further fine-tuning the model, or otherwise interfering with its training process. 

The change in behavior of poisoned models may be limited to targeted categories in predictive AI models, or targeted topics, concepts, or facts in generative AI models, or aim for a general performance degradation.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0018.000
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-12-23
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0018 — Manipulate AI Model

## Tactics (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/persistence|Persistence]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/ai-attack-staging|AI Attack Staging]]

## Mitigations (5)

- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/control-access-to-ai-models-and-data-at-rest|AML.M0005: Control Access to AI Models and Data at Rest]] — Access controls can prevent tampering with ML artifacts and prevent unauthorized copying.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/sanitize-training-data|AML.M0007: Sanitize Training Data]] — Prevent attackers from leveraging poisoned datasets to launch backdoor attacks against a model.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/validate-ai-model|AML.M0008: Validate AI Model]] — Ensure that trained models do not respond to potential backdoor triggers or adversarial influence.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/code-signing|AML.M0013: Code Signing]] — Code signing provides a guarantee that the model has not been manipulated after signing took place.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/maintain-ai-dataset-provenance|AML.M0025: Maintain AI Dataset Provenance]] — Dataset provenance can protect against poisoning of models.

## Case Studies (3)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/poisongpt|PoisonGPT]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/organization-confusion-on-hugging-face|Organization Confusion on Hugging Face]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/ai-model-tampering-via-supply-chain-attack|AI Model Tampering via Supply Chain Attack]]
