frameworks/atlas/techniques/persistence/ai-agent-context-poisoning/agent-context-poisoning-memory.md, before:

---
id: ai-agent-context-poisoning-memory
title: "AML.T0080.000: Memory"
sidebar_label: "Memory"
sidebar_position: 8
---

# AML.T0080.000: Memory

Adversaries may manipulate the memory of a large language model (LLM) in order to persist changes to the LLM to future chat sessions. 

Memory is a common feature in LLMs that allows them to remember information across chat sessions by utilizing a user-specific database. Because the memory is controlled via normal conversations with the user (e.g. "remember my preference for ...") an adversary can inject memories via Direct or Indirect Prompt Injection. Memories may contain malicious instructions (e.g. instructions that leak private conversations) or may promote the adversary's hidden agenda (e.g. manipulating the user).

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0080.000
- **Created:** September 30, 2025
- **Last Modified:** September 30, 2025
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*

## Case Studies (2)

The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/aikatz-attacking-llm-desktop-applications|AML.CS0036: AIKatz: Attacking LLM Desktop Applications]]

The attacker could then craft malicious prompts that manipulate the LLM’s memory to achieve a persistent effect. Any change in memory would also propagate to any new chat threads.

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/hacking-chatgpt-s-memories-with-prompt-injection|AML.CS0040: Hacking ChatGPT’s Memories with Prompt Injection]]

The prompt caused new memories to be introduced, changing the behavior of ChatGPT. The chat window indicated that the memory has been set, despite the lack of human verification or intervention. All future chat sessions will use the poisoned memory store.

## References

MITRE Corporation. *Memory (AML.T0080.000)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0080.000

Commit message:

Sync ATLAS v5.4.0: 15 new files, 3 stale stubs removed, full rebuild via kb-atlas-sync.py
- 219 managed files: 16 tactics, 16 tactic stubs, 135 techniques, 52 case studies
- New techniques: deploy-ai-agent, ai-agent C2, escape-to-host, publish-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, exploitation-for-credential/defense-evasion
- New sub-techniques: user-execution-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, user-execution-malicious-link
- New case studies: OpenClaw CVEs, Claude computer use, Cursor MCP, Amazon Q
- Deleted stale index stubs: tactics.md, techniques.md, case-studies.md
- Version tracked in .atlas-version

frameworks/atlas/techniques/persistence/ai-agent-context-poisoning/agent-context-poisoning-memory.md, after:

---
id: agent-context-poisoning-memory
title: "AML.T0080.001: Thread"
sidebar_label: "Thread"
sidebar_position: 80002
---

# AML.T0080.001: Thread

Adversaries may introduce malicious instructions into a chat thread of a large language model (LLM) to cause behavior changes which persist for the remainder of the thread. A chat thread may continue for an extended period over multiple sessions.

The malicious instructions may be introduced via Direct or Indirect Prompt Injection. Direct Injection may occur in cases where the adversary has acquired a user's LLM API keys and can inject queries directly into any thread.

As the token limits for LLMs rise, AI systems can make use of larger context windows which allow malicious instructions to persist longer in a thread.
Thread Poisoning may affect multiple users if the LLM is being used in a service with shared threads. For example, if an agent is active in a Slack channel with multiple participants, a single malicious message from one user can influence the agent's behavior in future interactions with others.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0080.001
- **Created:** 2025-09-30
- **Last Modified:** 2025-09-30
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0080 — AI Agent Context Poisoning

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/persistence|Persistence]]

## Case Studies (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/aikatz-attacking-llm-desktop-applications|AIKatz: Attacking LLM Desktop Applications]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/openclaw-command-control-via-prompt-injection|OpenClaw Command & Control via Prompt Injection]]
