atlas/techniques/command-and-control/reverse-shell.md, before:

---
id: reverse-shell
title: "AML.T0072: Reverse Shell"
sidebar_label: "Reverse Shell"
sidebar_position: 1
---

# AML.T0072: Reverse Shell



Adversaries may utilize a reverse shell to communicate and control the victim system.

Typically, a user uses a client to connect to a remote machine which is listening for connections. With a reverse shell, the adversary is listening for incoming connections initiated from the victim system.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0072
- **Created:** April 11, 2024
- **Last Modified:** April 14, 2025
- **Maturity:** realized



## Tactics (1)

This technique supports the following tactics:


- [[command-and-control|AML.TA0014: Command and Control]]




## Case Studies (2)


The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[organization-confusion-on-hugging-face|AML.CS0027: Organization Confusion on Hugging Face]]

The Sliver implant grants the researcher a command and control channel so they can explore the victim's environment and continue the attack.

### [[malicious-models-on-hugging-face|AML.CS0031: Malicious Models on Hugging Face]]

The malicious payload was a reverse shell set to connect to a hardcoded IP address.



## References

MITRE Corporation. *Reverse Shell (AML.T0072)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0072

Commit message:

Fix 2,633 broken wikilinks across 214 atlas files
- Resolved bare-name links to full paths (techniques, tactics, case-studies)
- Added overview-file fallback for technique parent links
- Remaining: 4 genuinely broken references (bad source data)

atlas/techniques/command-and-control/reverse-shell.md, after:

---
id: reverse-shell
title: "AML.T0072: Reverse Shell"
sidebar_label: "Reverse Shell"
sidebar_position: 1
---

# AML.T0072: Reverse Shell



Adversaries may utilize a reverse shell to communicate and control the victim system.

Typically, a user uses a client to connect to a remote machine which is listening for connections. With a reverse shell, the adversary is listening for incoming connections initiated from the victim system.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0072
- **Created:** April 11, 2024
- **Last Modified:** April 14, 2025
- **Maturity:** realized



## Tactics (1)

This technique supports the following tactics:


- [[atlas/tactics/command-and-control|AML.TA0014: Command and Control]]




## Case Studies (2)


The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[atlas/case-studies/organization-confusion-on-hugging-face|AML.CS0027: Organization Confusion on Hugging Face]]

The Sliver implant grants the researcher a command and control channel so they can explore the victim's environment and continue the attack.

### [[atlas/case-studies/malicious-models-on-hugging-face|AML.CS0031: Malicious Models on Hugging Face]]

The malicious payload was a reverse shell set to connect to a hardcoded IP address.



## References

MITRE Corporation. *Reverse Shell (AML.T0072)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0072
