atlas/techniques/collection/data-from-ai-services/rag-databases.md, before:

---
id: data-from-ai-services-rag-databases
title: "AML.T0085.000: RAG Databases"
sidebar_label: "RAG Databases"
sidebar_position: 5
---

# AML.T0085.000: RAG Databases

> **Sub-Technique of:** [[data-from-ai-services|AML.T0085: Data from AI Services]]



Adversaries may prompt the AI service to retrieve data from a RAG database. This can include the majority of an organization's internal documents.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0085.000
- **Created:** September 30, 2025
- **Last Modified:** September 30, 2025
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

- **Parent Technique:** [[data-from-ai-services|AML.T0085: Data from AI Services]]

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*



## Case Studies (1)


The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[data-exfiltration-via-agent-tools-in-copilot-studio|AML.CS0037: Data Exfiltration via Agent Tools in Copilot Studio]]

The prompt asks the agent to retrieve all of the fields and rows from “Customer Support Account Owners.csv”. The agent retrieves the entire file.



## References

MITRE Corporation. *RAG Databases (AML.T0085.000)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0085.000

Commit message:

Fix 2,633 broken wikilinks across 214 atlas files
- Resolved bare-name links to full paths (techniques, tactics, case-studies)
- Added overview-file fallback for technique parent links
- Remaining: 4 genuinely broken references (bad source data)

atlas/techniques/collection/data-from-ai-services/rag-databases.md, after:

---
id: data-from-ai-services-rag-databases
title: "AML.T0085.000: RAG Databases"
sidebar_label: "RAG Databases"
sidebar_position: 5
---

# AML.T0085.000: RAG Databases

> **Sub-Technique of:** [[atlas/techniques/collection/data-from-ai-services/data-from-ai-services-overview|AML.T0085: Data from AI Services]]



Adversaries may prompt the AI service to retrieve data from a RAG database. This can include the majority of an organization's internal documents.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0085.000
- **Created:** September 30, 2025
- **Last Modified:** September 30, 2025
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

- **Parent Technique:** [[atlas/techniques/collection/data-from-ai-services/data-from-ai-services-overview|AML.T0085: Data from AI Services]]

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*



## Case Studies (1)


The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[atlas/case-studies/data-exfiltration-via-agent-tools-in-copilot-studio|AML.CS0037: Data Exfiltration via Agent Tools in Copilot Studio]]

The prompt asks the agent to retrieve all of the fields and rows from “Customer Support Account Owners.csv”. The agent retrieves the entire file.



## References

MITRE Corporation. *RAG Databases (AML.T0085.000)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0085.000
