frameworks/atlas/techniques/initial-access/ai-supply-chain-compromise/supply-chain-compromise-hardware.md, before:

---
id: supply-chain-compromise-hardware
title: "AML.T0010.003: Model"
sidebar_label: "Model"
sidebar_position: 10004
---

# AML.T0010.003: Model

AI-enabled systems often rely on open sourced models in various ways.
Most commonly, the victim organization may be using these models for fine tuning.
These models will be downloaded from an external source and then used as the base for the model as it is tuned on a smaller, private dataset.
Loading models often requires executing some saved code in the form of a saved model file.
These can be compromised with traditional malware, or through some adversarial AI techniques.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0010.003
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-09
- **Maturity:** realized

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0010 — AI Supply Chain Compromise

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/initial-access|Initial Access]]

## Case Studies (4)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/backdoor-attack-on-deep-learning-models-in-mobile-apps|Backdoor Attack on Deep Learning Models in Mobile Apps]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/poisongpt|PoisonGPT]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/shadowray|ShadowRay]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/organization-confusion-on-hugging-face|Organization Confusion on Hugging Face]]

Commit message:

Add ATLAS mitigations: 35 mitigation pages, bidirectional technique↔mitigation links
- New mitigations/ directory with all 35 ATLAS mitigations (AML.M0000–AML.M0034)
- Each mitigation page lists linked techniques with usage context
- 62 technique pages updated with Mitigations section linking back
- 246 total technique↔mitigation cross-references for graph connectivity
- Includes agent-specific mitigations: HITL, tool permissions, memory hardening, segmentation

frameworks/atlas/techniques/initial-access/ai-supply-chain-compromise/supply-chain-compromise-hardware.md, after:

---
id: supply-chain-compromise-hardware
title: "AML.T0010.003: Model"
sidebar_label: "Model"
sidebar_position: 10004
---

# AML.T0010.003: Model

AI-enabled systems often rely on open sourced models in various ways.
Most commonly, the victim organization may be using these models for fine tuning.
These models will be downloaded from an external source and then used as the base for the model as it is tuned on a smaller, private dataset.
Loading models often requires executing some saved code in the form of a saved model file.
These can be compromised with traditional malware, or through some adversarial AI techniques.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0010.003
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-09
- **Maturity:** realized

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0010 — AI Supply Chain Compromise

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/initial-access|Initial Access]]

## Mitigations (5)

- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/control-access-to-ai-models-and-data-at-rest|AML.M0005: Control Access to AI Models and Data at Rest]] — Access controls can prevent tampering with ML artifacts and prevent unauthorized copying.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/use-ensemble-methods|AML.M0006: Use Ensemble Methods]] — Using multiple different models ensures minimal performance loss if security flaw is found in tool for one model or family.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/validate-ai-model|AML.M0008: Validate AI Model]] — Ensure that acquired models do not respond to potential backdoor triggers or adversarial influence.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/code-signing|AML.M0013: Code Signing]] — Enforce properly signed model files.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/ai-model-distribution-methods|AML.M0017: AI Model Distribution Methods]] — An adversary could repackage the application with a malicious version of the model.

## Case Studies (4)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/backdoor-attack-on-deep-learning-models-in-mobile-apps|Backdoor Attack on Deep Learning Models in Mobile Apps]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/poisongpt|PoisonGPT]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/shadowray|ShadowRay]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/organization-confusion-on-hugging-face|Organization Confusion on Hugging Face]]
