frameworks/atlas/techniques/initial-access/ai-supply-chain-compromise/supply-chain-compromise-AI-software.md, before:

---
id: supply-chain-compromise-AI-software
title: "AML.T0010.002: Data"
sidebar_label: "Data"
sidebar_position: 10003
---

# AML.T0010.002: Data

Data is a key vector of supply chain compromise for adversaries.
Every AI project will require some form of data.
Many rely on large open source datasets that are publicly available.
An adversary could rely on compromising these sources of data.
The malicious data could be a result of [Poison Training Data](/techniques/AML.T0020) or include traditional malware.

An adversary can also target private datasets in the labeling phase.
The creation of private datasets will often require the hiring of outside labeling services.
An adversary can poison a dataset by modifying the labels being generated by the labeling service.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0010.002
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-09
- **Maturity:** realized

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0010 — AI Supply Chain Compromise

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/initial-access|Initial Access]]

## Case Studies (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/virustotal-poisoning|VirusTotal Poisoning]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/tay-poisoning|Tay Poisoning]]

Commit message:

Add ATLAS mitigations: 35 mitigation pages, bidirectional technique↔mitigation links
- New mitigations/ directory with all 35 ATLAS mitigations (AML.M0000–AML.M0034)
- Each mitigation page lists linked techniques with usage context
- 62 technique pages updated with Mitigations section linking back
- 246 total technique↔mitigation cross-references for graph connectivity
- Includes agent-specific mitigations: HITL, tool permissions, memory hardening, segmentation

frameworks/atlas/techniques/initial-access/ai-supply-chain-compromise/supply-chain-compromise-AI-software.md, after:

---
id: supply-chain-compromise-AI-software
title: "AML.T0010.002: Data"
sidebar_label: "Data"
sidebar_position: 10003
---

# AML.T0010.002: Data

Data is a key vector of supply chain compromise for adversaries.
Every AI project will require some form of data.
Many rely on large open source datasets that are publicly available.
An adversary could rely on compromising these sources of data.
The malicious data could be a result of [Poison Training Data](/techniques/AML.T0020) or include traditional malware.

An adversary can also target private datasets in the labeling phase.
The creation of private datasets will often require the hiring of outside labeling services.
An adversary can poison a dataset by modifying the labels being generated by the labeling service.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0010.002
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-09
- **Maturity:** realized

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0010 — AI Supply Chain Compromise

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/initial-access|Initial Access]]

## Mitigations (4)

- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/control-access-to-ai-models-and-data-at-rest|AML.M0005: Control Access to AI Models and Data at Rest]] — Access controls can prevent tampering with ML artifacts and prevent unauthorized copying.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/sanitize-training-data|AML.M0007: Sanitize Training Data]] — Detect and remove or remediate poisoned data to avoid adversarial model drift or backdoor attacks.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/verify-ai-artifacts|AML.M0014: Verify AI Artifacts]] — Introduce proper checking of signatures to ensure that unsafe AI data will not be introduced to the system.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/maintain-ai-dataset-provenance|AML.M0025: Maintain AI Dataset Provenance]] — Dataset provenance can protect against supply chain compromise of data.

## Case Studies (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/virustotal-poisoning|VirusTotal Poisoning]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/tay-poisoning|Tay Poisoning]]
