frameworks/atlas/techniques/execution/user-execution/user-execution-malicious-package.md, before:

---
id: user-execution-malicious-package
title: "AML.T0011.001: Malicious Package"
sidebar_label: "Malicious Package"
sidebar_position: 8
---

# AML.T0011.001: Malicious Package

Adversaries may develop malicious software packages that when imported by a user have a deleterious effect.
Malicious packages may behave as expected to the user. They may be introduced via AI Supply Chain Compromise. They may not present as obviously malicious to the user and may appear to be useful for an AI-related task.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0011.001
- **Created:** March 12, 2025
- **Last Modified:** March 12, 2025
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*

## Case Studies (1)

The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/chatgpt-package-hallucination|AML.CS0022: ChatGPT Package Hallucination]]

The user would ultimately load the malicious package, allowing for arbitrary code execution.

## References

MITRE Corporation. *Malicious Package (AML.T0011.001)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0011.001

Commit message:

Sync ATLAS v5.4.0: 15 new files, 3 stale stubs removed, full rebuild via kb-atlas-sync.py
- 219 managed files: 16 tactics, 16 tactic stubs, 135 techniques, 52 case studies
- New techniques: deploy-ai-agent, ai-agent C2, escape-to-host, publish-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, exploitation-for-credential/defense-evasion
- New sub-techniques: user-execution-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, user-execution-malicious-link
- New case studies: OpenClaw CVEs, Claude computer use, Cursor MCP, Amazon Q
- Deleted stale index stubs: tactics.md, techniques.md, case-studies.md
- Version tracked in .atlas-version

frameworks/atlas/techniques/execution/user-execution/user-execution-malicious-package.md, after:

---
id: user-execution-malicious-package
title: "AML.T0011.001: Malicious Package"
sidebar_label: "Malicious Package"
sidebar_position: 11002
---

# AML.T0011.001: Malicious Package

Adversaries may develop malicious software packages that when imported by a user have a deleterious effect.
Malicious packages may behave as expected to the user. They may be introduced via [AI Supply Chain Compromise](/techniques/AML.T0010). They may not present as obviously malicious to the user and may appear to be useful for an AI-related task.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0011.001
- **Created:** 2025-03-12
- **Last Modified:** 2025-03-12
- **Maturity:** realized

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0011 — User Execution

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/execution|Execution]]

## Case Studies (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/chatgpt-package-hallucination|ChatGPT Package Hallucination]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/code-to-deploy-destructive-ai-agent-discovered-in-amazon-q-vs-code-extension|Code to Deploy Destructive AI Agent Discovered in Amazon Q VS Code Extension]]
