frameworks/atlas/techniques/reconnaissance/search-victim-owned-websites.md, before:

---
id: search-victim-owned-websites
title: "AML.T0003: Search Victim-Owned Websites"
sidebar_label: "Search Victim-Owned Websites"
sidebar_position: 4
---

# AML.T0003: Search Victim-Owned Websites

Adversaries may search websites owned by the victim for information that can be used during targeting.
Victim-owned websites may contain technical details about their AI-enabled products or services.
Victim-owned websites may contain a variety of details, including names of departments/divisions, physical locations, and data about key employees such as names, roles, and contact info.
These sites may also have details highlighting business operations and relationships.

Adversaries may search victim-owned websites to gather actionable information.
This information may help adversaries tailor their attacks (e.g. [Adversarial AI Attacks](/techniques/AML.T0017.000) or [Manual Modification](/techniques/AML.T0043.003)).
Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (e.g. [Search Open Technical Databases](/techniques/AML.T0000) or [Search Open AI Vulnerability Analysis](/techniques/AML.T0001))

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0003
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-09
- **Maturity:** demonstrated
- **MITRE ATT&CK Reference:** [T1594](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1594/)

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/reconnaissance|Reconnaissance]]

## Case Studies (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/confusing-antimalware-neural-networks|Confusing Antimalware Neural Networks]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/living-off-ai-prompt-injection-via-jira-service-management|Living Off AI: Prompt Injection via Jira Service Management]]

Commit message:

Add ATLAS mitigations: 35 mitigation pages, bidirectional technique↔mitigation links
- New mitigations/ directory with all 35 ATLAS mitigations (AML.M0000–AML.M0034)
- Each mitigation page lists linked techniques with usage context
- 62 technique pages updated with Mitigations section linking back
- 246 total technique↔mitigation cross-references for graph connectivity
- Includes agent-specific mitigations: HITL, tool permissions, memory hardening, segmentation

frameworks/atlas/techniques/reconnaissance/search-victim-owned-websites.md, after:

---
id: search-victim-owned-websites
title: "AML.T0003: Search Victim-Owned Websites"
sidebar_label: "Search Victim-Owned Websites"
sidebar_position: 4
---

# AML.T0003: Search Victim-Owned Websites

Adversaries may search websites owned by the victim for information that can be used during targeting.
Victim-owned websites may contain technical details about their AI-enabled products or services.
Victim-owned websites may contain a variety of details, including names of departments/divisions, physical locations, and data about key employees such as names, roles, and contact info.
These sites may also have details highlighting business operations and relationships.

Adversaries may search victim-owned websites to gather actionable information.
This information may help adversaries tailor their attacks (e.g. [Adversarial AI Attacks](/techniques/AML.T0017.000) or [Manual Modification](/techniques/AML.T0043.003)).
Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (e.g. [Search Open Technical Databases](/techniques/AML.T0000) or [Search Open AI Vulnerability Analysis](/techniques/AML.T0001))

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0003
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-09
- **Maturity:** demonstrated
- **MITRE ATT&CK Reference:** [T1594](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1594/)

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/reconnaissance|Reconnaissance]]

## Mitigations (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/limit-public-release-of-information|AML.M0000: Limit Public Release of Information]] — Restrict release of technical information on ML-enabled products and organizational information on the teams supporting ML-enabled products.

## Case Studies (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/confusing-antimalware-neural-networks|Confusing Antimalware Neural Networks]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/living-off-ai-prompt-injection-via-jira-service-management|Living Off AI: Prompt Injection via Jira Service Management]]
