frameworks/atlas/techniques/exfiltration/exfiltration-via-ai-inference-api/exfiltration-via-inference-API-membership-inference.md, before:

---
id: exfiltration-via-ai-inference-api-infer-training-data-membership
title: "AML.T0024.000: Infer Training Data Membership"
sidebar_label: "Infer Training Data Membership"
sidebar_position: 2
---

# AML.T0024.000: Infer Training Data Membership

Adversaries may infer the membership of a data sample or global characteristics of the data in its training set, which raises privacy concerns.
Some strategies make use of a shadow model that could be obtained via [[frameworks/atlas/techniques/ai-attack-staging/create-proxy-ai-model/create-proxy-via-replication|Train Proxy via Replication]], others use statistics of model prediction scores.

This can cause the victim model to leak private information, such as PII of those in the training set or other forms of protected IP.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0024.000
- **Created:** May 13, 2021
- **Last Modified:** November 6, 2025
- **Maturity:** feasible

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*

## Case Studies (0)

*No case studies currently documented for this technique.*

## References

MITRE Corporation. *Infer Training Data Membership (AML.T0024.000)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0024.000

Commit message:

Sync ATLAS v5.4.0: 15 new files, 3 stale stubs removed, full rebuild via kb-atlas-sync.py
- 219 managed files: 16 tactics, 16 tactic stubs, 135 techniques, 52 case studies
- New techniques: deploy-ai-agent, ai-agent C2, escape-to-host, publish-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, exploitation-for-credential/defense-evasion
- New sub-techniques: user-execution-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, user-execution-malicious-link
- New case studies: OpenClaw CVEs, Claude computer use, Cursor MCP, Amazon Q
- Deleted stale index stubs: tactics.md, techniques.md, case-studies.md
- Version tracked in .atlas-version

frameworks/atlas/techniques/exfiltration/exfiltration-via-ai-inference-api/exfiltration-via-inference-API-membership-inference.md, after:

---
id: exfiltration-via-inference-API-membership-inference
title: "AML.T0024.002: Extract AI Model"
sidebar_label: "Extract AI Model"
sidebar_position: 24003
---

# AML.T0024.002: Extract AI Model

Adversaries may extract a functional copy of a private model.
By repeatedly querying the victim's [AI Model Inference API Access](/techniques/AML.T0040), the adversary can collect the target model's inferences into a dataset.
The inferences are used as labels for training a separate model offline that will mimic the behavior and performance of the target model.

Adversaries may extract the model to avoid paying per query in an artificial-intelligence-as-a-service (AIaaS) setting.
Model extraction is used for [AI Intellectual Property Theft](/techniques/AML.T0048.004).

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0024.002
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-12-23
- **Maturity:** feasible

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0024 — Exfiltration via AI Inference API

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/exfiltration|Exfiltration]]
