mitigations/rationalization-language-monitoring.md, before:

---
title: "Rationalization Language Monitoring"
tags:
  - type/mitigation
  - target/agent
  - target/llm
  - source/generative-ai-security
maturity: draft
created: 2026-02-14
updated: 2026-02-14
---
# Rationalization Language Monitoring

## Summary

Rationalization language monitoring is a detective control that identifies linguistic patterns indicating goal drift, where agents justify policy violations through framing like "given the urgency" or "to best serve the user." This mitigation detects the specific language agents use when their reasoning has been manipulated to prioritize user satisfaction or efficiency over compliance. By flagging rationalization phrases, this control provides early warning of successful goal hijacking before policy-violating actions occur.

## Defends Against

| ID | Technique | Description |
|----|-----------|-------------|
| | [[techniques/agent-goal-hijack]] | Detects rationalization language indicating success criteria have shifted toward attacker-favorable outcomes |
| | [[techniques/agent-identity-crisis]] | Identifies language suggesting role confusion or priority inversion |

## Implementation

### Rationalization Pattern Detection

```python
class RationalizationDetector:
    """Detect rationalization language in agent responses"""
    
    RATIONALIZATION_PATTERNS = {
        'urgency_justification': [
            'given the urgency',
            'time-sensitive',
            'can\'t wait',
            'deadline pressure',
            'immediately needed'
        ],
        'efficiency_framing': [
            'to be efficient',
            'streamline',
            'avoid bureaucracy',
            'fastest way',
            'skip the usual process'
        ],
        'user_satisfaction': [
            'to best serve',
            'customer satisfaction',
            'avoid blocking the user',
            'keep the user happy',
            'prevent churn'
        ],
        'special_case': [
            'in this case',
            'this special situation',
            'given the circumstances',
            'just this once',
            'temporary exception'
        ],
        'outcome_prioritization': [
            'ultimately what matters',
            'the end goal',
            'most important thing is',
            'focus on results',
            'practical outcome'
        ],
        'policy_balancing': [
            'balancing policy with',
            'flexibility is important',
            'strict interpretation might',
            'policy allows for',
            'within the spirit of'
        ]
    }
    
    def detect(self, agent_response):
        """
        Scan response for rationalization patterns
        
        Returns:
            (rationalization_score: float, detected_patterns: list)
        """
        detected = []
        score = 0.0
        
        response_lower = agent_response.lower()
        
        for category, patterns in self.RATIONALIZATION_PATTERNS.items():
            for pattern in patterns:
                if pattern in response_lower:
                    detected.append({
                        'category': category,
                        'pattern': pattern,
                        'severity': self._assess_severity(category)
                    })
                    score += self._assess_severity(category)
        
        return min(1.0, score / 2.0), detected  # Normalize to 0-1
    
    def _assess_severity(self, category):
        """Assign severity weight to rationalization categories"""
        severity_weights = {
            'urgency_justification': 0.3,
            'efficiency_framing': 0.25,
            'user_satisfaction': 0.3,
            'special_case': 0.4,  # High severity
            'outcome_prioritization': 0.35,
            'policy_balancing': 0.45  # Highest severity
        }
        return severity_weights.get(category, 0.2)

# Usage
detector = RationalizationDetector()

@app.after_agent_response
def check_rationalization(agent_response, session_id):
    """Monitor agent responses for rationalization language"""
    score, patterns = detector.detect(agent_response)
    
    if score > 0.4:  # Threshold
        log_security_event("rationalization_detected", {
            "session_id": session_id,
            "score": score,
            "patterns": [p['pattern'] for p in patterns],
            "response_excerpt": agent_response[:200]
        })
        
        if score > 0.7:  # High rationalization
            alert_security_team({
                "session_id": session_id,
                "risk": "high",
                "reason": "Agent exhibiting high rationalization language",
                "patterns": patterns
            })
```

## Sources

> "Rationalization Language Monitoring: Flag responses containing phrases indicating goal shifting: 'given the urgency,' 'in this case,' 'balancing policy with,' 'to best serve,' 'efficiency dictates.' Correlate frequency with conversation length."
> — Extracted from agent-goal-hijack detective controls (AI-Native LLM Security)

## Related

- **Combined with**: [[mitigations/multi-turn-behavioral-drift-detection]], [[mitigations/policy-consistency-scoring]]
- **Defends**: [[techniques/agent-goal-hijack]]

Commit message:

Phase 5.5: Mitigation skeleton audit - 154 files validated, 202 issues fixed
- type/defense → type/mitigation across 14 files
- Added missing frontmatter fields (maturity, dates)
- Added missing skeleton sections (Defends Against, Implementation, etc)
- Removed forbidden sections and description fields
- 100% skeleton compliance achieved

mitigations/rationalization-language-monitoring.md, after:

---
title: "Rationalization Language Monitoring"
tags:
  - type/mitigation
  - target/agent
  - target/llm
  - source/generative-ai-security
maturity: draft
created: 2026-02-14
updated: 2026-02-14
---
## Summary

Rationalization language monitoring is a detective control that identifies linguistic patterns indicating goal drift, where agents justify policy violations through framing like "given the urgency" or "to best serve the user." This mitigation detects the specific language agents use when their reasoning has been manipulated to prioritize user satisfaction or efficiency over compliance. By flagging rationalization phrases, this control provides early warning of successful goal hijacking before policy-violating actions occur.


## Defends Against

| ID | Technique | Description |
|----|-----------|-------------|
| | [[techniques/agent-goal-hijack]] | Detects rationalization language indicating success criteria have shifted toward attacker-favorable outcomes |
| | [[techniques/agent-identity-crisis]] | Identifies language suggesting role confusion or priority inversion |


## Implementation

### Rationalization Pattern Detection

```python
class RationalizationDetector:
    """Detect rationalization language in agent responses"""
    
    RATIONALIZATION_PATTERNS = {
        'urgency_justification': [
            'given the urgency',
            'time-sensitive',
            'can\'t wait',
            'deadline pressure',
            'immediately needed'
        ],
        'efficiency_framing': [
            'to be efficient',
            'streamline',
            'avoid bureaucracy',
            'fastest way',
            'skip the usual process'
        ],
        'user_satisfaction': [
            'to best serve',
            'customer satisfaction',
            'avoid blocking the user',
            'keep the user happy',
            'prevent churn'
        ],
        'special_case': [
            'in this case',
            'this special situation',
            'given the circumstances',
            'just this once',
            'temporary exception'
        ],
        'outcome_prioritization': [
            'ultimately what matters',
            'the end goal',
            'most important thing is',
            'focus on results',
            'practical outcome'
        ],
        'policy_balancing': [
            'balancing policy with',
            'flexibility is important',
            'strict interpretation might',
            'policy allows for',
            'within the spirit of'
        ]
    }
    
    def detect(self, agent_response):
        """
        Scan response for rationalization patterns
        
        Returns:
            (rationalization_score: float, detected_patterns: list)
        """
        detected = []
        score = 0.0
        
        response_lower = agent_response.lower()
        
        for category, patterns in self.RATIONALIZATION_PATTERNS.items():
            for pattern in patterns:
                if pattern in response_lower:
                    detected.append({
                        'category': category,
                        'pattern': pattern,
                        'severity': self._assess_severity(category)
                    })
                    score += self._assess_severity(category)
        
        return min(1.0, score / 2.0), detected  # Normalize to 0-1
    
    def _assess_severity(self, category):
        """Assign severity weight to rationalization categories"""
        severity_weights = {
            'urgency_justification': 0.3,
            'efficiency_framing': 0.25,
            'user_satisfaction': 0.3,
            'special_case': 0.4,  # High severity
            'outcome_prioritization': 0.35,
            'policy_balancing': 0.45  # Highest severity
        }
        return severity_weights.get(category, 0.2)

# Usage
detector = RationalizationDetector()

@app.after_agent_response
def check_rationalization(agent_response, session_id):
    """Monitor agent responses for rationalization language"""
    score, patterns = detector.detect(agent_response)
    
    if score > 0.4:  # Threshold
        log_security_event("rationalization_detected", {
            "session_id": session_id,
            "score": score,
            "patterns": [p['pattern'] for p in patterns],
            "response_excerpt": agent_response[:200]
        })
        
        if score > 0.7:  # High rationalization
            alert_security_team({
                "session_id": session_id,
                "risk": "high",
                "reason": "Agent exhibiting high rationalization language",
                "patterns": patterns
            })
```


## Limitations & Trade-offs

[To be completed]

## Testing & Validation

[To be completed]

## Procedure Examples

| Name | Tactic | Description |
|------|--------|-------------|
| | [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/]] | |

## Sources

> "Rationalization Language Monitoring: Flag responses containing phrases indicating goal shifting: 'given the urgency,' 'in this case,' 'balancing policy with,' 'to best serve,' 'efficiency dictates.' Correlate frequency with conversation length."
> — Extracted from agent-goal-hijack detective controls (AI-Native LLM Security)
