mitigations/temporary-privilege-reduction.md, before:

---
title: "Temporary Privilege Reduction"
tags:
  - type/mitigation
  - target/agent
  - source/generative-ai-security
maturity: draft
created: 2026-02-14
updated: 2026-02-14
---
# Temporary Privilege Reduction

## Summary

Temporary privilege reduction is a responsive control that dynamically reduces agent tool access when suspicious patterns are detected, limiting potential damage from ongoing attacks without completely terminating the session. This mitigation provides a middle ground between full operation and complete shutdown, allowing legitimate conversation to continue while blocking high-risk actions until human review confirms the session is safe.

## Defends Against

| ID | Technique | Description |
|----|-----------|-------------|
| | [[techniques/agent-goal-hijack]] | Limits damage from goal hijacking by restricting access to sensitive tools |
| | [[techniques/tool-privilege-escalation]] | Prevents privilege escalation by temporarily revoking elevated tool access |
| | [[techniques/unsafe-tool-invocation]] | Blocks dangerous tool usage when manipulation suspected |

## Implementation

```python
class TemporaryPrivilegeReduction:
    """Dynamically reduce agent privileges when suspicious activity detected"""
    
    PRIVILEGE_LEVELS = {
        'full': ['read', 'write', 'execute', 'admin'],
        'restricted': ['read', 'limited_write'],
        'read_only': ['read'],
        'locked': []
    }
    
    def __init__(self):
        self.session_privilege_level = {}  # Track per-session privileges
    
    def reduce_privileges(self, session_id, reason, detection_data):
        """
        Reduce session privileges based on risk
        
        Args:
            session_id: Session to restrict
            reason: Detection reason
            detection_data: Data from detection system
        
        Returns:
            new_privilege_level: str
        """
        # Determine appropriate privilege level based on risk
        risk_score = self._calculate_risk_score(detection_data)
        
        if risk_score > 0.8:
            new_level = 'locked'
        elif risk_score > 0.6:
            new_level = 'read_only'
        else:
            new_level = 'restricted'
        
        # Store previous level for restoration
        previous_level = self.session_privilege_level.get(session_id, 'full')
        
        self.session_privilege_level[session_id] = {
            'level': new_level,
            'previous': previous_level,
            'reduced_at': datetime.now(),
            'reason': reason,
            'pending_review': True
        }
        
        log_security_event("privilege_reduction", {
            "session_id": session_id,
            "from_level": previous_level,
            "to_level": new_level,
            "reason": reason,
            "risk_score": risk_score
        })
        
        # Notify security team for review
        queue_for_security_review(session_id, reason, risk_score)
        
        return new_level
    
    def check_tool_allowed(self, session_id, tool_name, tool_risk_level):
        """
        Check if tool invocation allowed under current privilege level
        
        Returns:
            (allowed: bool, denial_reason: str)
        """
        session_privileges = self.session_privilege_level.get(session_id, {
            'level': 'full',
            'pending_review': False
        })
        
        current_level = session_privileges['level']
        allowed_capabilities = self.PRIVILEGE_LEVELS[current_level]
        
        # Check if tool requires capability not currently allowed
        if tool_risk_level not in allowed_capabilities:
            return False, f"Tool requires '{tool_risk_level}' capability, current level is '{current_level}'"
        
        return True, None
    
    def restore_privileges(self, session_id, reviewer_id, approved):
        """
        Restore privileges after human review
        
        Args:
            session_id: Session to restore
            reviewer_id: Reviewer approving restoration
            approved: Whether to restore or maintain restriction
        """
        if session_id not in self.session_privilege_level:
            return False
        
        session_data = self.session_privilege_level[session_id]
        
        if approved:
            # Restore previous privileges
            restored_level = session_data['previous']
            self.session_privilege_level[session_id] = {
                'level': restored_level,
                'pending_review': False
            }
            
            log_security_event("privilege_restored", {
                "session_id": session_id,
                "restored_level": restored_level,
                "reviewer": reviewer_id
            })
            
            return True
        else:
            # Maintain restriction or escalate to termination
            log_security_event("privilege_restoration_denied", {
                "session_id": session_id,
                "reviewer": reviewer_id
            })
            
            return False

# Integration with tool invocation
privilege_manager = TemporaryPrivilegeReduction()

@app.before_tool_execution
def check_privileges(session_id, tool_name, tool_risk_level):
    """Enforce privilege checks before tool execution"""
    allowed, denial_reason = privilege_manager.check_tool_allowed(
        session_id,
        tool_name,
        tool_risk_level
    )
    
    if not allowed:
        log_security_event("tool_blocked_by_privilege_reduction", {
            "session_id": session_id,
            "tool": tool_name,
            "reason": denial_reason
        })
        
        raise ToolAccessDeniedError(
            f"Tool access temporarily restricted: {denial_reason}. Your session is under security review."
        )

# Integration with detection systems
@app.after_drift_detection
def handle_drift_detection(session_id, drift_analysis):
    """Reduce privileges when drift detected"""
    if drift_analysis['drift_score'] > 0.5:
        privilege_manager.reduce_privileges(
            session_id,
            reason="behavioral_drift",
            detection_data=drift_analysis
        )
```

## Sources

> "Temporary Privilege Reduction: When suspicious patterns detected, temporarily disable high-risk tool access until human review confirms legitimate use case."
> — Extracted from agent-goal-hijack responsive controls (AI-Native LLM Security)

## Related

- **Triggered by**: [[mitigations/multi-turn-behavioral-drift-detection]], [[mitigations/anomaly-detection-architecture]]
- **Combined with**: [[mitigations/approval-workflow-patterns]], [[mitigations/kill-switch-and-session-termination]]
- **Defends**: [[techniques/agent-goal-hijack]], [[techniques/tool-privilege-escalation]], [[techniques/unsafe-tool-invocation]]

Commit message:

Phase 5.5: Mitigation skeleton audit - 154 files validated, 202 issues fixed
- type/defense → type/mitigation across 14 files
- Added missing frontmatter fields (maturity, dates)
- Added missing skeleton sections (Defends Against, Implementation, etc)
- Removed forbidden sections and description fields
- 100% skeleton compliance achieved

mitigations/temporary-privilege-reduction.md, after:

---
title: "Temporary Privilege Reduction"
tags:
  - type/mitigation
  - target/agent
  - source/generative-ai-security
maturity: draft
created: 2026-02-14
updated: 2026-02-14
---
## Summary

Temporary privilege reduction is a responsive control that dynamically reduces agent tool access when suspicious patterns are detected, limiting potential damage from ongoing attacks without completely terminating the session. This mitigation provides a middle ground between full operation and complete shutdown, allowing legitimate conversation to continue while blocking high-risk actions until human review confirms the session is safe.


## Defends Against

| ID | Technique | Description |
|----|-----------|-------------|
| | [[techniques/agent-goal-hijack]] | Limits damage from goal hijacking by restricting access to sensitive tools |
| | [[techniques/tool-privilege-escalation]] | Prevents privilege escalation by temporarily revoking elevated tool access |
| | [[techniques/unsafe-tool-invocation]] | Blocks dangerous tool usage when manipulation suspected |


## Implementation

```python
class TemporaryPrivilegeReduction:
    """Dynamically reduce agent privileges when suspicious activity detected"""
    
    PRIVILEGE_LEVELS = {
        'full': ['read', 'write', 'execute', 'admin'],
        'restricted': ['read', 'limited_write'],
        'read_only': ['read'],
        'locked': []
    }
    
    def __init__(self):
        self.session_privilege_level = {}  # Track per-session privileges
    
    def reduce_privileges(self, session_id, reason, detection_data):
        """
        Reduce session privileges based on risk
        
        Args:
            session_id: Session to restrict
            reason: Detection reason
            detection_data: Data from detection system
        
        Returns:
            new_privilege_level: str
        """
        # Determine appropriate privilege level based on risk
        risk_score = self._calculate_risk_score(detection_data)
        
        if risk_score > 0.8:
            new_level = 'locked'
        elif risk_score > 0.6:
            new_level = 'read_only'
        else:
            new_level = 'restricted'
        
        # Store previous level for restoration
        previous_level = self.session_privilege_level.get(session_id, 'full')
        
        self.session_privilege_level[session_id] = {
            'level': new_level,
            'previous': previous_level,
            'reduced_at': datetime.now(),
            'reason': reason,
            'pending_review': True
        }
        
        log_security_event("privilege_reduction", {
            "session_id": session_id,
            "from_level": previous_level,
            "to_level": new_level,
            "reason": reason,
            "risk_score": risk_score
        })
        
        # Notify security team for review
        queue_for_security_review(session_id, reason, risk_score)
        
        return new_level
    
    def check_tool_allowed(self, session_id, tool_name, tool_risk_level):
        """
        Check if tool invocation allowed under current privilege level
        
        Returns:
            (allowed: bool, denial_reason: str)
        """
        session_privileges = self.session_privilege_level.get(session_id, {
            'level': 'full',
            'pending_review': False
        })
        
        current_level = session_privileges['level']
        allowed_capabilities = self.PRIVILEGE_LEVELS[current_level]
        
        # Check if tool requires capability not currently allowed
        if tool_risk_level not in allowed_capabilities:
            return False, f"Tool requires '{tool_risk_level}' capability, current level is '{current_level}'"
        
        return True, None
    
    def restore_privileges(self, session_id, reviewer_id, approved):
        """
        Restore privileges after human review
        
        Args:
            session_id: Session to restore
            reviewer_id: Reviewer approving restoration
            approved: Whether to restore or maintain restriction
        """
        if session_id not in self.session_privilege_level:
            return False
        
        session_data = self.session_privilege_level[session_id]
        
        if approved:
            # Restore previous privileges
            restored_level = session_data['previous']
            self.session_privilege_level[session_id] = {
                'level': restored_level,
                'pending_review': False
            }
            
            log_security_event("privilege_restored", {
                "session_id": session_id,
                "restored_level": restored_level,
                "reviewer": reviewer_id
            })
            
            return True
        else:
            # Maintain restriction or escalate to termination
            log_security_event("privilege_restoration_denied", {
                "session_id": session_id,
                "reviewer": reviewer_id
            })
            
            return False

# Integration with tool invocation
privilege_manager = TemporaryPrivilegeReduction()

@app.before_tool_execution
def check_privileges(session_id, tool_name, tool_risk_level):
    """Enforce privilege checks before tool execution"""
    allowed, denial_reason = privilege_manager.check_tool_allowed(
        session_id,
        tool_name,
        tool_risk_level
    )
    
    if not allowed:
        log_security_event("tool_blocked_by_privilege_reduction", {
            "session_id": session_id,
            "tool": tool_name,
            "reason": denial_reason
        })
        
        raise ToolAccessDeniedError(
            f"Tool access temporarily restricted: {denial_reason}. Your session is under security review."
        )

# Integration with detection systems
@app.after_drift_detection
def handle_drift_detection(session_id, drift_analysis):
    """Reduce privileges when drift detected"""
    if drift_analysis['drift_score'] > 0.5:
        privilege_manager.reduce_privileges(
            session_id,
            reason="behavioral_drift",
            detection_data=drift_analysis
        )
```


## Limitations & Trade-offs

[To be completed]

## Testing & Validation

[To be completed]

## Procedure Examples

| Name | Tactic | Description |
|------|--------|-------------|
| | [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/]] | |

## Sources

> "Temporary Privilege Reduction: When suspicious patterns detected, temporarily disable high-risk tool access until human review confirms legitimate use case."
> — Extracted from agent-goal-hijack responsive controls (AI-Native LLM Security)
