frameworks/atlas/techniques/initial-access/phishing/phishing-spearphishing-via-LLM.md, before:

---
id: phishing-spearphishing-via-LLM
title: "AML.T0052.000: Spearphishing via Social Engineering LLM"
sidebar_label: "Spearphishing via Social Engineering LLM"
sidebar_position: 52001
---

# AML.T0052.000: Spearphishing via Social Engineering LLM

Adversaries may turn LLMs into targeted social engineers.
LLMs are capable of interacting with users via text conversations.
They can be instructed by an adversary to seek sensitive information from a user and act as effective social engineers.
They can be targeted towards particular personas defined by the adversary.
This allows adversaries to scale spearphishing efforts and target individuals to reveal private information such as credentials to privileged systems.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0052.000
- **Created:** 2023-10-25
- **Last Modified:** 2023-10-25
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0052 — Phishing

## Tactics (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/initial-access|Initial Access]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/lateral-movement|Lateral Movement]]

## Case Studies (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/indirect-prompt-injection-threats-bing-chat-data-pirate|Indirect Prompt Injection Threats: Bing Chat Data Pirate]]

Commit message:

Add ATLAS mitigations: 35 mitigation pages, bidirectional technique↔mitigation links
- New mitigations/ directory with all 35 ATLAS mitigations (AML.M0000–AML.M0034)
- Each mitigation page lists linked techniques with usage context
- 62 technique pages updated with Mitigations section linking back
- 246 total technique↔mitigation cross-references for graph connectivity
- Includes agent-specific mitigations: HITL, tool permissions, memory hardening, segmentation

frameworks/atlas/techniques/initial-access/phishing/phishing-spearphishing-via-LLM.md, after:

---
id: phishing-spearphishing-via-LLM
title: "AML.T0052.000: Spearphishing via Social Engineering LLM"
sidebar_label: "Spearphishing via Social Engineering LLM"
sidebar_position: 52001
---

# AML.T0052.000: Spearphishing via Social Engineering LLM

Adversaries may turn LLMs into targeted social engineers.
LLMs are capable of interacting with users via text conversations.
They can be instructed by an adversary to seek sensitive information from a user and act as effective social engineers.
They can be targeted towards particular personas defined by the adversary.
This allows adversaries to scale spearphishing efforts and target individuals to reveal private information such as credentials to privileged systems.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0052.000
- **Created:** 2023-10-25
- **Last Modified:** 2023-10-25
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0052 — Phishing

## Tactics (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/initial-access|Initial Access]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/lateral-movement|Lateral Movement]]

## Mitigations (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/user-training|AML.M0018: User Training]] — Train users to identify phishing attempts and understand that AI can be used to generate targeted and convincing messages.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/deepfake-detection|AML.M0034: Deepfake Detection]] — Deepfake detection can be used to identify and block phishing attempts that use generated content.

## Case Studies (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/indirect-prompt-injection-threats-bing-chat-data-pirate|Indirect Prompt Injection Threats: Bing Chat Data Pirate]]
