frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/acquire-infrastructure/acquire-infrastructure-physical-countermeasures.md, before:

---
id: acquire-infrastructure-physical-countermeasures
title: "AML.T0008.003: Physical Countermeasures"
sidebar_label: "Physical Countermeasures"
sidebar_position: 18
---

# AML.T0008.003: Physical Countermeasures

Adversaries may acquire or manufacture physical countermeasures to aid or support their attack.

These components may be used to disrupt or degrade the model, such as adversarial patterns printed on stickers or T-shirts, disguises, or decoys. They may also be used to disrupt or degrade the sensors used in capturing data, such as laser pointers, light bulbs, or other tools.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0008.003
- **Created:** March 12, 2025
- **Last Modified:** March 12, 2025
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*

## Case Studies (1)

The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/face-identification-system-evasion-via-physical-countermeasures|AML.CS0012: Face Identification System Evasion via Physical Countermeasures]]

The team printed the optimized patch.

## References

MITRE Corporation. *Physical Countermeasures (AML.T0008.003)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0008.003

Commit message:

Sync ATLAS v5.4.0: 15 new files, 3 stale stubs removed, full rebuild via kb-atlas-sync.py
- 219 managed files: 16 tactics, 16 tactic stubs, 135 techniques, 52 case studies
- New techniques: deploy-ai-agent, ai-agent C2, escape-to-host, publish-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, exploitation-for-credential/defense-evasion
- New sub-techniques: user-execution-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, user-execution-malicious-link
- New case studies: OpenClaw CVEs, Claude computer use, Cursor MCP, Amazon Q
- Deleted stale index stubs: tactics.md, techniques.md, case-studies.md
- Version tracked in .atlas-version

frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/acquire-infrastructure/acquire-infrastructure-physical-countermeasures.md, after:

---
id: acquire-infrastructure-physical-countermeasures
title: "AML.T0008.004: Serverless"
sidebar_label: "Serverless"
sidebar_position: 8005
---

# AML.T0008.004: Serverless

Adversaries may purchase and configure serverless cloud infrastructure, such as Cloudflare Workers, AWS Lambda functions, or Google Apps Scripts, that can be used during targeting. By utilizing serverless infrastructure, adversaries can make it more difficult to attribute infrastructure used during operations back to them.

Once acquired, the serverless runtime environment can be leveraged to either respond directly to infected machines or to Proxy traffic to an adversary-owned command and control server. As traffic generated by these functions will appear to come from subdomains of common cloud providers, it may be difficult to distinguish from ordinary traffic to these providers. This can be used to bypass a Content Security Policy which prevent retrieving content from arbitrary locations.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0008.004
- **Created:** 2025-04-15
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-15
- **Maturity:** feasible
- **MITRE ATT&CK Reference:** [T1583.007](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/007/)

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0008 — Acquire Infrastructure

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/resource-development|Resource Development]]
