frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/acquire-infrastructure/acquire-infrastructure-AI-dev-workspaces.md, before:

---
id: acquire-infrastructure-ai-development-workspaces
title: "AML.T0008.000: AI Development Workspaces"
sidebar_label: "AI Development Workspaces"
sidebar_position: 10
---

# AML.T0008.000: AI Development Workspaces

Developing and staging AI attacks often requires expensive compute resources.
Adversaries may need access to one or many GPUs in order to develop an attack.
They may try to anonymously use free resources such as Google Colaboratory, or cloud resources such as AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud as an efficient way to stand up temporary resources to conduct operations.
Multiple workspaces may be used to avoid detection.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0008.000
- **Created:** May 13, 2021
- **Last Modified:** April 9, 2025
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*

## Case Studies (1)

The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/gpt-2-model-replication|AML.CS0007: GPT-2 Model Replication]]

The researchers were able to use TensorFlow Research Cloud via their academic credentials.

## References

MITRE Corporation. *AI Development Workspaces (AML.T0008.000)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0008.000

Commit message:

Sync ATLAS v5.4.0: 15 new files, 3 stale stubs removed, full rebuild via kb-atlas-sync.py
- 219 managed files: 16 tactics, 16 tactic stubs, 135 techniques, 52 case studies
- New techniques: deploy-ai-agent, ai-agent C2, escape-to-host, publish-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, exploitation-for-credential/defense-evasion
- New sub-techniques: user-execution-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, user-execution-malicious-link
- New case studies: OpenClaw CVEs, Claude computer use, Cursor MCP, Amazon Q
- Deleted stale index stubs: tactics.md, techniques.md, case-studies.md
- Version tracked in .atlas-version

frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/acquire-infrastructure/acquire-infrastructure-AI-dev-workspaces.md, after:

---
id: acquire-infrastructure-AI-dev-workspaces
title: "AML.T0008.003: Physical Countermeasures"
sidebar_label: "Physical Countermeasures"
sidebar_position: 8004
---

# AML.T0008.003: Physical Countermeasures

Adversaries may acquire or manufacture physical countermeasures to aid or support their attack.

These components may be used to disrupt or degrade the model, such as adversarial patterns printed on stickers or T-shirts, disguises, or decoys. They may also be used to disrupt or degrade the sensors used in capturing data, such as laser pointers, light bulbs, or other tools.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0008.003
- **Created:** 2025-03-12
- **Last Modified:** 2025-03-12
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0008 — Acquire Infrastructure

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/resource-development|Resource Development]]

## Case Studies (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/face-identification-system-evasion-via-physical-countermeasures|Face Identification System Evasion via Physical Countermeasures]]
