frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/acquire-infrastructure/acquire-infrastructure-consumer-hardware.md, before:

---
id: acquire-infrastructure-consumer-hardware
title: "AML.T0008.001: Consumer Hardware"
sidebar_label: "Consumer Hardware"
sidebar_position: 11
---

# AML.T0008.001: Consumer Hardware

Adversaries may acquire consumer hardware to conduct their attacks.
Owning the hardware provides the adversary with complete control of the environment. These devices can be hard to trace.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0008.001
- **Created:** May 13, 2021
- **Last Modified:** May 13, 2021
- **Maturity:** realized

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*

## Case Studies (1)

The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/camera-hijack-attack-on-facial-recognition-system|AML.CS0004: Camera Hijack Attack on Facial Recognition System]]

The attackers bought customized low-end mobile phones.

## References

MITRE Corporation. *Consumer Hardware (AML.T0008.001)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0008.001

Commit message:

Sync ATLAS v5.4.0: 15 new files, 3 stale stubs removed, full rebuild via kb-atlas-sync.py
- 219 managed files: 16 tactics, 16 tactic stubs, 135 techniques, 52 case studies
- New techniques: deploy-ai-agent, ai-agent C2, escape-to-host, publish-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, exploitation-for-credential/defense-evasion
- New sub-techniques: user-execution-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, user-execution-malicious-link
- New case studies: OpenClaw CVEs, Claude computer use, Cursor MCP, Amazon Q
- Deleted stale index stubs: tactics.md, techniques.md, case-studies.md
- Version tracked in .atlas-version

frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/acquire-infrastructure/acquire-infrastructure-consumer-hardware.md, after:

---
id: acquire-infrastructure-consumer-hardware
title: "AML.T0008.002: Domains"
sidebar_label: "Domains"
sidebar_position: 8003
---

# AML.T0008.002: Domains

Adversaries may acquire domains that can be used during targeting. Domain names are the human readable names used to represent one or more IP addresses. They can be purchased or, in some cases, acquired for free.

Adversaries may use acquired domains for a variety of purposes (see [ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/001/)). Large AI datasets are often distributed as a list of URLs to individual datapoints. Adversaries may acquire expired domains that are included in these datasets and replace individual datapoints with poisoned examples ([Publish Poisoned Datasets](/techniques/AML.T0019)).

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0008.002
- **Created:** 2025-03-12
- **Last Modified:** 2025-03-12
- **Maturity:** demonstrated
- **MITRE ATT&CK Reference:** [T1583.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/001/)

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0008 — Acquire Infrastructure

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/resource-development|Resource Development]]

## Case Studies (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/web-scale-data-poisoning-split-view-attack|Web-Scale Data Poisoning: Split-View Attack]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/supply-chain-compromise-via-poisoned-clawdbot-skill|Supply Chain Compromise via Poisoned ClawdBot Skill]]
