frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/acquire-infrastructure/acquire-infrastructure-domains.md, before:

---
id: acquire-infrastructure-domains
title: "AML.T0008.002: Domains"
sidebar_label: "Domains"
sidebar_position: 17
---

# AML.T0008.002: Domains

Adversaries may acquire domains that can be used during targeting. Domain names are the human readable names used to represent one or more IP addresses. They can be purchased or, in some cases, acquired for free.

Adversaries may use acquired domains for a variety of purposes (see [ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/001/)). Large AI datasets are often distributed as a list of URLs to individual datapoints. Adversaries may acquire expired domains that are included in these datasets and replace individual datapoints with poisoned examples ([[frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/publish-poisoned-datasets|Publish Poisoned Datasets]]).

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0008.002
- **Created:** March 12, 2025
- **Last Modified:** March 12, 2025
- **Maturity:** demonstrated
- **MITRE ATT&CK Reference:** [T1583.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/001/)
## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*

## Case Studies (1)

The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/web-scale-data-poisoning-split-view-attack|AML.CS0025: Web-Scale Data Poisoning: Split-View Attack]]

They identify expired domains in the dataset and purchase them.

## References

MITRE Corporation. *Domains (AML.T0008.002)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0008.002

Commit message:

Sync ATLAS v5.4.0: 15 new files, 3 stale stubs removed, full rebuild via kb-atlas-sync.py
- 219 managed files: 16 tactics, 16 tactic stubs, 135 techniques, 52 case studies
- New techniques: deploy-ai-agent, ai-agent C2, escape-to-host, publish-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, exploitation-for-credential/defense-evasion
- New sub-techniques: user-execution-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, user-execution-malicious-link
- New case studies: OpenClaw CVEs, Claude computer use, Cursor MCP, Amazon Q
- Deleted stale index stubs: tactics.md, techniques.md, case-studies.md
- Version tracked in .atlas-version

frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/acquire-infrastructure/acquire-infrastructure-domains.md, after:

---
id: acquire-infrastructure-domains
title: "AML.T0008.000: AI Development Workspaces"
sidebar_label: "AI Development Workspaces"
sidebar_position: 8001
---

# AML.T0008.000: AI Development Workspaces

Developing and staging AI attacks often requires expensive compute resources.
Adversaries may need access to one or many GPUs in order to develop an attack.
They may try to anonymously use free resources such as Google Colaboratory, or cloud resources such as AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud as an efficient way to stand up temporary resources to conduct operations.
Multiple workspaces may be used to avoid detection.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0008.000
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-09
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0008 — Acquire Infrastructure

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/resource-development|Resource Development]]

## Case Studies (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/gpt-2-model-replication|GPT-2 Model Replication]]
