frameworks/atlas/techniques/exfiltration/exfiltration-via-cyber-means.md, before:

---
id: exfiltration-via-cyber-means
title: "AML.T0025: Exfiltration via Cyber Means"
sidebar_label: "Exfiltration via Cyber Means"
sidebar_position: 26
---

# AML.T0025: Exfiltration via Cyber Means

Adversaries may exfiltrate AI artifacts or other information relevant to their goals via traditional cyber means.

See the ATT&CK [Exfiltration](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0010/) tactic for more information.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0025
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-09
- **Maturity:** realized

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/exfiltration|Exfiltration]]

## Case Studies (8)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/microsoft-azure-service-disruption|Microsoft Azure Service Disruption]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/compromised-pytorch-dependency-chain|Compromised PyTorch Dependency Chain]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/arbitrary-code-execution-with-google-colab|Arbitrary Code Execution with Google Colab]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/shadowray|ShadowRay]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/organization-confusion-on-hugging-face|Organization Confusion on Hugging Face]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/malware-prototype-with-embedded-prompt-injection|Malware Prototype with Embedded Prompt Injection]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/lamehug-malware-leveraging-dynamic-ai-generated-commands|LAMEHUG: Malware Leveraging Dynamic AI-Generated Commands]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/exposed-clawdbot-control-interfaces-leads-to-credential-access-and-execution|Exposed ClawdBot Control Interfaces Leads to Credential Access and Execution]]

Commit message:

Add ATLAS mitigations: 35 mitigation pages, bidirectional technique↔mitigation links
- New mitigations/ directory with all 35 ATLAS mitigations (AML.M0000–AML.M0034)
- Each mitigation page lists linked techniques with usage context
- 62 technique pages updated with Mitigations section linking back
- 246 total technique↔mitigation cross-references for graph connectivity
- Includes agent-specific mitigations: HITL, tool permissions, memory hardening, segmentation

frameworks/atlas/techniques/exfiltration/exfiltration-via-cyber-means.md, after:

---
id: exfiltration-via-cyber-means
title: "AML.T0025: Exfiltration via Cyber Means"
sidebar_label: "Exfiltration via Cyber Means"
sidebar_position: 26
---

# AML.T0025: Exfiltration via Cyber Means

Adversaries may exfiltrate AI artifacts or other information relevant to their goals via traditional cyber means.

See the ATT&CK [Exfiltration](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0010/) tactic for more information.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0025
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-09
- **Maturity:** realized

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/exfiltration|Exfiltration]]

## Mitigations (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/control-access-to-ai-models-and-data-at-rest|AML.M0005: Control Access to AI Models and Data at Rest]] — Access controls can prevent exfiltration.

## Case Studies (8)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/microsoft-azure-service-disruption|Microsoft Azure Service Disruption]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/compromised-pytorch-dependency-chain|Compromised PyTorch Dependency Chain]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/arbitrary-code-execution-with-google-colab|Arbitrary Code Execution with Google Colab]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/shadowray|ShadowRay]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/organization-confusion-on-hugging-face|Organization Confusion on Hugging Face]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/malware-prototype-with-embedded-prompt-injection|Malware Prototype with Embedded Prompt Injection]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/lamehug-malware-leveraging-dynamic-ai-generated-commands|LAMEHUG: Malware Leveraging Dynamic AI-Generated Commands]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/exposed-clawdbot-control-interfaces-leads-to-credential-access-and-execution|Exposed ClawdBot Control Interfaces Leads to Credential Access and Execution]]
