frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/stage-capabilities.md, before:

---
id: stage-capabilities
title: "AML.T0079: Stage Capabilities"
sidebar_label: "Stage Capabilities"
sidebar_position: 23
---

# AML.T0079: Stage Capabilities

Adversaries may upload, install, or otherwise set up capabilities that can be used during targeting. To support their operations, an adversary may need to take capabilities they developed (Develop Capabilities) or obtained (Obtain Capabilities) and stage them on infrastructure under their control. These capabilities may be staged on infrastructure that was previously purchased/rented by the adversary (Acquire Infrastructure) or was otherwise compromised by them. Capabilities may also be staged on web services, such as GitHub, model registries, such as Hugging Face, or container registries.

Adversaries may stage a variety of AI Artifacts including poisoned datasets ([[frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/publish-poisoned-datasets|Publish Poisoned Datasets]], malicious models ([[frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/publish-poisoned-models|Publish Poisoned Models]], and prompt injections. They may target names of legitimate companies or products, engage in typosquatting, or use hallucinated entities ([[frameworks/atlas/techniques/discovery/discover-llm-hallucinations|Discover LLM Hallucinations]]).

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0079
- **Created:** April 16, 2025
- **Last Modified:** April 17, 2025
- **Maturity:** demonstrated
- **MITRE ATT&CK Reference:** [T1608](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1608/)

## Tactics (1)

This technique supports the following tactics:

- 

## Case Studies (2)

The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/chatgpt-conversation-exfiltration|AML.CS0021: ChatGPT Conversation Exfiltration]]

The researcher included the prompt in a webpage, where it could be retrieved by ChatGPT.

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/rules-file-backdoor-supply-chain-attack-on-ai-coding-assistants|AML.CS0041: Rules File Backdoor: Supply Chain Attack on AI Coding Assistants]]

The researchers staged a malicious javascript file on a publicly available website.

## References

MITRE Corporation. *Stage Capabilities (AML.T0079)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0079

Commit message:

Sync ATLAS v5.4.0: 15 new files, 3 stale stubs removed, full rebuild via kb-atlas-sync.py
- 219 managed files: 16 tactics, 16 tactic stubs, 135 techniques, 52 case studies
- New techniques: deploy-ai-agent, ai-agent C2, escape-to-host, publish-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, exploitation-for-credential/defense-evasion
- New sub-techniques: user-execution-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, user-execution-malicious-link
- New case studies: OpenClaw CVEs, Claude computer use, Cursor MCP, Amazon Q
- Deleted stale index stubs: tactics.md, techniques.md, case-studies.md
- Version tracked in .atlas-version

frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/stage-capabilities.md, after:

---
id: stage-capabilities
title: "AML.T0079: Stage Capabilities"
sidebar_label: "Stage Capabilities"
sidebar_position: 80
---

# AML.T0079: Stage Capabilities

Adversaries may upload, install, or otherwise set up capabilities that can be used during targeting. To support their operations, an adversary may need to take capabilities they developed ([Develop Capabilities](/techniques/AML.T0017)) or obtained ([Obtain Capabilities](/techniques/AML.T0016)) and stage them on infrastructure under their control. These capabilities may be staged on infrastructure that was previously purchased/rented by the adversary ([Acquire Infrastructure](/techniques/AML.T0008)) or was otherwise compromised by them. Capabilities may also be staged on web services, such as GitHub, model registries, such as Hugging Face, or container registries.

Adversaries may stage a variety of AI Artifacts including poisoned datasets ([Publish Poisoned Datasets](/techniques/AML.T0019), malicious models ([Publish Poisoned Models](/techniques/AML.T0058), and prompt injections. They may target names of legitimate companies or products, engage in typosquatting, or use hallucinated entities ([Discover LLM Hallucinations](/techniques/AML.T0062)).

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0079
- **Created:** 2025-04-16
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-17
- **Maturity:** demonstrated
- **MITRE ATT&CK Reference:** [T1608](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1608/)

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/resource-development|Resource Development]]

## Case Studies (5)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/chatgpt-conversation-exfiltration|ChatGPT Conversation Exfiltration]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/rules-file-backdoor-supply-chain-attack-on-ai-coding-assistants|Rules File Backdoor: Supply Chain Attack on AI Coding Assistants]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/data-exfiltration-via-an-mcp-server-used-by-cursor|Data Exfiltration via an MCP Server used by Cursor]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/openclaw-1-click-remote-code-execution|OpenClaw 1-Click Remote Code Execution]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/openclaw-command-control-via-prompt-injection|OpenClaw Command & Control via Prompt Injection]]
