frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/acquire-public-ai-artifacts/acquire-public-AI-artifacts-datasets.md, before:

---
id: acquire-public-AI-artifacts-datasets
title: "AML.T0002.000: Datasets"
sidebar_label: "Datasets"
sidebar_position: 2001
---

# AML.T0002.000: Datasets

Adversaries may collect public datasets to use in their operations.
Datasets used by the victim organization or datasets that are representative of the data used by the victim organization may be valuable to adversaries.
Datasets can be stored in cloud storage, or on victim-owned websites.
Some datasets require the adversary to [Establish Accounts](/techniques/AML.T0021) for access.

Acquired datasets help the adversary advance their operations, stage attacks,  and tailor attacks to the victim organization.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0002.000
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2021-05-13
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0002 — Acquire Public AI Artifacts

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/resource-development|Resource Development]]

## Case Studies (6)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/evasion-of-deep-learning-detector-for-malware-c-c-traffic|Evasion of Deep Learning Detector for Malware C&C Traffic]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/attack-on-machine-translation-services|Attack on Machine Translation Services]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/gpt-2-model-replication|GPT-2 Model Replication]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/face-identification-system-evasion-via-physical-countermeasures|Face Identification System Evasion via Physical Countermeasures]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/confusing-antimalware-neural-networks|Confusing Antimalware Neural Networks]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/web-scale-data-poisoning-split-view-attack|Web-Scale Data Poisoning: Split-View Attack]]

Commit message:

Add ATLAS mitigations: 35 mitigation pages, bidirectional technique↔mitigation links
- New mitigations/ directory with all 35 ATLAS mitigations (AML.M0000–AML.M0034)
- Each mitigation page lists linked techniques with usage context
- 62 technique pages updated with Mitigations section linking back
- 246 total technique↔mitigation cross-references for graph connectivity
- Includes agent-specific mitigations: HITL, tool permissions, memory hardening, segmentation

frameworks/atlas/techniques/resource-development/acquire-public-ai-artifacts/acquire-public-AI-artifacts-datasets.md, after:

---
id: acquire-public-AI-artifacts-datasets
title: "AML.T0002.000: Datasets"
sidebar_label: "Datasets"
sidebar_position: 2001
---

# AML.T0002.000: Datasets

Adversaries may collect public datasets to use in their operations.
Datasets used by the victim organization or datasets that are representative of the data used by the victim organization may be valuable to adversaries.
Datasets can be stored in cloud storage, or on victim-owned websites.
Some datasets require the adversary to [Establish Accounts](/techniques/AML.T0021) for access.

Acquired datasets help the adversary advance their operations, stage attacks,  and tailor attacks to the victim organization.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0002.000
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2021-05-13
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0002 — Acquire Public AI Artifacts

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/resource-development|Resource Development]]

## Mitigations (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/limit-model-artifact-release|AML.M0001: Limit Model Artifact Release]] — Limiting the release of datasets can reduce an adversary's ability to target production models trained on the same or similar data.

## Case Studies (6)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/evasion-of-deep-learning-detector-for-malware-c-c-traffic|Evasion of Deep Learning Detector for Malware C&C Traffic]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/attack-on-machine-translation-services|Attack on Machine Translation Services]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/gpt-2-model-replication|GPT-2 Model Replication]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/face-identification-system-evasion-via-physical-countermeasures|Face Identification System Evasion via Physical Countermeasures]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/confusing-antimalware-neural-networks|Confusing Antimalware Neural Networks]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/web-scale-data-poisoning-split-view-attack|Web-Scale Data Poisoning: Split-View Attack]]
