frameworks/atlas/techniques/ai-attack-staging/create-proxy-ai-model/create-proxy-via-replication.md, before:

---
id: create-proxy-via-replication
title: "AML.T0005.001: Train Proxy via Replication"
sidebar_label: "Train Proxy via Replication"
sidebar_position: 5002
---

# AML.T0005.001: Train Proxy via Replication

Adversaries may replicate a private model.
By repeatedly querying the victim's [AI Model Inference API Access](/techniques/AML.T0040), the adversary can collect the target model's inferences into a dataset.
The inferences are used as labels for training a separate model offline that will mimic the behavior and performance of the target model.

A replicated model that closely mimic's the target model is a valuable resource in staging the attack.
The adversary can use the replicated model to [Craft Adversarial Data](/techniques/AML.T0043) for various purposes (e.g. [Evade AI Model](/techniques/AML.T0015), [Spamming AI System with Chaff Data](/techniques/AML.T0046)).

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0005.001
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2021-05-13
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0005 — Create Proxy AI Model

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/ai-attack-staging|AI Attack Staging]]

## Case Studies (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/attack-on-machine-translation-services|Attack on Machine Translation Services]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/proofpoint-evasion|ProofPoint Evasion]]

Commit message:

Add ATLAS mitigations: 35 mitigation pages, bidirectional technique↔mitigation links
- New mitigations/ directory with all 35 ATLAS mitigations (AML.M0000–AML.M0034)
- Each mitigation page lists linked techniques with usage context
- 62 technique pages updated with Mitigations section linking back
- 246 total technique↔mitigation cross-references for graph connectivity
- Includes agent-specific mitigations: HITL, tool permissions, memory hardening, segmentation

frameworks/atlas/techniques/ai-attack-staging/create-proxy-ai-model/create-proxy-via-replication.md, after:

---
id: create-proxy-via-replication
title: "AML.T0005.001: Train Proxy via Replication"
sidebar_label: "Train Proxy via Replication"
sidebar_position: 5002
---

# AML.T0005.001: Train Proxy via Replication

Adversaries may replicate a private model.
By repeatedly querying the victim's [AI Model Inference API Access](/techniques/AML.T0040), the adversary can collect the target model's inferences into a dataset.
The inferences are used as labels for training a separate model offline that will mimic the behavior and performance of the target model.

A replicated model that closely mimic's the target model is a valuable resource in staging the attack.
The adversary can use the replicated model to [Craft Adversarial Data](/techniques/AML.T0043) for various purposes (e.g. [Evade AI Model](/techniques/AML.T0015), [Spamming AI System with Chaff Data](/techniques/AML.T0046)).

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0005.001
- **Created:** 2021-05-13
- **Last Modified:** 2021-05-13
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

## Parent Technique

**Parent Technique:** AML.T0005 — Create Proxy AI Model

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/ai-attack-staging|AI Attack Staging]]

## Mitigations (3)

- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/passive-ai-output-obfuscation|AML.M0002: Passive AI Output Obfuscation]] — Obfuscating model outputs restricts an adversary's ability to create an accurate proxy model by querying a model and observing its outputs.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/restrict-number-of-ai-model-queries|AML.M0004: Restrict Number of AI Model Queries]] — Restricting the number of queries to the model decreases an adversary's ability to replicate an accurate proxy model.
- [[frameworks/atlas/mitigations/ai-telemetry-logging|AML.M0024: AI Telemetry Logging]] — Telemetry logging can help identify if a proxy training dataset has been exfiltrated.

## Case Studies (2)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/attack-on-machine-translation-services|Attack on Machine Translation Services]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/proofpoint-evasion|ProofPoint Evasion]]
