atlas/techniques/ai-attack-staging/craft-adversarial-data/insert-backdoor-trigger.md, before:

---
id: craft-adversarial-data-insert-backdoor-trigger
title: "AML.T0043.004: Insert Backdoor Trigger"
sidebar_label: "Insert Backdoor Trigger"
sidebar_position: 11
---

# AML.T0043.004: Insert Backdoor Trigger

> **Sub-Technique of:** [[craft-adversarial-data|AML.T0043: Craft Adversarial Data]]



The adversary may add a perceptual trigger into inference data.
The trigger may be imperceptible or non-obvious to humans.
This technique is used in conjunction with [[poison-ai-model|Poison AI Model]] and allows the adversary to produce their desired effect in the target model.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0043.004
- **Created:** May 13, 2021
- **Last Modified:** May 13, 2021
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

- **Parent Technique:** [[craft-adversarial-data|AML.T0043: Craft Adversarial Data]]

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*



## Case Studies (1)


The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[backdoor-attack-on-deep-learning-models-in-mobile-apps|AML.CS0013: Backdoor Attack on Deep Learning Models in Mobile Apps]]

The trigger is placed in the physical environment, where it is captured by the victim's device camera and processed by the backdoored ML model.



## References

MITRE Corporation. *Insert Backdoor Trigger (AML.T0043.004)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0043.004

Commit message:

Fix 2,633 broken wikilinks across 214 atlas files
- Resolved bare-name links to full paths (techniques, tactics, case-studies)
- Added overview-file fallback for technique parent links
- Remaining: 4 genuinely broken references (bad source data)

atlas/techniques/ai-attack-staging/craft-adversarial-data/insert-backdoor-trigger.md, after:

---
id: craft-adversarial-data-insert-backdoor-trigger
title: "AML.T0043.004: Insert Backdoor Trigger"
sidebar_label: "Insert Backdoor Trigger"
sidebar_position: 11
---

# AML.T0043.004: Insert Backdoor Trigger

> **Sub-Technique of:** [[atlas/techniques/ai-attack-staging/craft-adversarial-data/craft-adversarial-data-overview|AML.T0043: Craft Adversarial Data]]



The adversary may add a perceptual trigger into inference data.
The trigger may be imperceptible or non-obvious to humans.
This technique is used in conjunction with [[atlas/techniques/persistence/manipulate-ai-model/poison-ai-model|Poison AI Model]] and allows the adversary to produce their desired effect in the target model.

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0043.004
- **Created:** May 13, 2021
- **Last Modified:** May 13, 2021
- **Maturity:** demonstrated

- **Parent Technique:** [[atlas/techniques/ai-attack-staging/craft-adversarial-data/craft-adversarial-data-overview|AML.T0043: Craft Adversarial Data]]

## Tactics (0)

This technique supports the following tactics:

*No tactics currently associated with this technique.*



## Case Studies (1)


The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[atlas/case-studies/backdoor-attack-on-deep-learning-models-in-mobile-apps|AML.CS0013: Backdoor Attack on Deep Learning Models in Mobile Apps]]

The trigger is placed in the physical environment, where it is captured by the victim's device camera and processed by the backdoored ML model.



## References

MITRE Corporation. *Insert Backdoor Trigger (AML.T0043.004)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0043.004
