frameworks/atlas/techniques/initial-access/drive-by-compromise.md, before:

---
id: drive-by-compromise
title: "AML.T0078: Drive-by Compromise"
sidebar_label: "Drive-by Compromise"
sidebar_position: 12
---

# AML.T0078: Drive-by Compromise

Adversaries may gain access to an AI system through a user visiting a website over the normal course of browsing, or an AI agent retrieving information from the web on behalf of a user. Websites can contain an LLM Prompt Injection which, when executed, can change the behavior of the AI model.

The same approach may be used to deliver other types of malicious code that don't target AI directly (See [Drive-by Compromise in ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1189/)).

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0078
- **Created:** April 16, 2025
- **Last Modified:** April 17, 2025
- **Maturity:** demonstrated
- **MITRE ATT&CK Reference:** [T1189](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1189/)

## Tactics (1)

This technique supports the following tactics:

- 

## Case Studies (1)

The following case studies demonstrate this technique:

### [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/chatgpt-conversation-exfiltration|AML.CS0021: ChatGPT Conversation Exfiltration]]

When the user makes a query that causes ChatGPT to retrieve the webpage using its `WebPilot` plugin, it ingests the adversary's prompt.

## References

MITRE Corporation. *Drive-by Compromise (AML.T0078)*. MITRE ATLAS. Available at: https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0078

Commit message:

Sync ATLAS v5.4.0: 15 new files, 3 stale stubs removed, full rebuild via kb-atlas-sync.py
- 219 managed files: 16 tactics, 16 tactic stubs, 135 techniques, 52 case studies
- New techniques: deploy-ai-agent, ai-agent C2, escape-to-host, publish-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, exploitation-for-credential/defense-evasion
- New sub-techniques: user-execution-poisoned-ai-agent-tool, user-execution-malicious-link
- New case studies: OpenClaw CVEs, Claude computer use, Cursor MCP, Amazon Q
- Deleted stale index stubs: tactics.md, techniques.md, case-studies.md
- Version tracked in .atlas-version

frameworks/atlas/techniques/initial-access/drive-by-compromise.md, after:

---
id: drive-by-compromise
title: "AML.T0078: Drive-by Compromise"
sidebar_label: "Drive-by Compromise"
sidebar_position: 79
---

# AML.T0078: Drive-by Compromise

Adversaries may gain access to an AI system through a user visiting a website over the normal course of browsing, or an AI agent retrieving information from the web on behalf of a user. Websites can contain an [LLM Prompt Injection](/techniques/AML.T0051) which, when executed, can change the behavior of the AI model.

The same approach may be used to deliver other types of malicious code that don't target AI directly (See [Drive-by Compromise in ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1189/)).

## Metadata

- **Technique ID:** AML.T0078
- **Created:** 2025-04-16
- **Last Modified:** 2025-04-17
- **Maturity:** demonstrated
- **MITRE ATT&CK Reference:** [T1189](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1189/)

## Tactics (1)

- [[frameworks/atlas/tactics/initial-access|Initial Access]]

## Case Studies (3)

- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/chatgpt-conversation-exfiltration|ChatGPT Conversation Exfiltration]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/data-exfiltration-via-an-mcp-server-used-by-cursor|Data Exfiltration via an MCP Server used by Cursor]]
- [[frameworks/atlas/case-studies/openclaw-command-control-via-prompt-injection|OpenClaw Command & Control via Prompt Injection]]
