defenses/input-validation-patterns.md, before:

---
tags:
  - trust-boundary/agent-runtime
  - trust-boundary/data-knowledge
  - trust-boundary/model
  - type/defense
description: "Cross-boundary patterns for validating and sanitizing user inputs, RAG content, and external data before processing by AI systems."
---
# Input Validation Patterns

## Summary

Input validation patterns are cross-boundary preventive controls that validate, sanitize, and filter all inputs entering AI systems before they reach models, tools, or knowledge stores. This control addresses the fundamental security principle of never trusting external input by implementing comprehensive validation at system boundaries. Input validation prevents a wide range of attacks including prompt injection, injection attacks in tool arguments, RAG poisoning, and various injection-based exploits. While validation alone cannot prevent all attacks, it serves as a critical first line of defense that raises the bar for attackers and reduces the attack surface.

## Applicable Issues

This control addresses the following security issues across multiple boundaries:

**Model Boundary:**
- **[[attacks/prompt-injection|Prompt Injection]]**: Filters meta-instructions, role-play keywords, and injection patterns from user inputs
- **[[attacks/jailbreak-policy-bypass|Jailbreak & Policy Bypass]]**: Validates inputs for jailbreak techniques and policy bypass attempts

**Data/Knowledge Boundary:**
- **[[attacks/rag-data-poisoning|RAG Data Poisoning]]**: Validates documents before ingestion into knowledge bases
- **[[attacks/embedding-poisoning|Embedding Poisoning]]**: Validates embedding inputs for manipulation attempts

**Application/Agent Runtime Boundary:**
- **[[attacks/insecure-prompt-assembly|Insecure Prompt Assembly]]**: Validates components before prompt assembly
- **[[attacks/insufficient-output-encoding|Insufficient Output Encoding]]**: Validates outputs before encoding to prevent injection
- **[[attacks/tool-privilege-escalation|Tool Privilege Escalation]]**: Validates tool arguments to prevent injection-based privilege escalation
- **[[attacks/unsafe-tool-invocation|Unsafe Tool Invocation]]**: Validates tool parameters before execution

**Deployment/Governance Boundary:**
- **[[attacks/api-authentication-bypass|API Authentication Bypass]]**: Validates authentication inputs
- **[[attacks/secrets-in-prompts-and-logs|Secrets in Prompts and Logs]]**: Filters sensitive data from inputs

[[methodology/trust-boundaries-overview|See [Trust Boundaries Overview]] for complete issue catalogs]

## Implementation Approach

**Core Components:**

1. **Validation Layers**
   - **Format Validation**: Verify inputs match expected formats (JSON, text, structured data)
   - **Type Validation**: Ensure data types match expected types (string, number, boolean)
   - **Length Validation**: Enforce maximum length limits to prevent resource exhaustion
   - **Character Validation**: Filter or reject dangerous characters and encoding tricks

2. **Pattern-Based Filtering**
   - **Keyword Filtering**: Detect and block known attack keywords (with awareness of limitations)
   - **Regex Pattern Matching**: Identify injection patterns, SQL injection, path traversal
   - **Encoding Detection**: Detect obfuscation attempts (Unicode, base64, URL encoding)
   - **Structure Analysis**: Validate input structure matches expected patterns

3. **Content Sanitization**
   - **HTML/XML Sanitization**: Strip or escape markup that could enable injection
   - **SQL Parameterization**: Use prepared statements, never string concatenation
   - **Path Normalization**: Resolve and validate file paths to prevent traversal
   - **Command Sanitization**: Validate command arguments to prevent shell injection

**Integration Points:**

- **API Gateway**: Validate all API inputs before routing to services
- **Input Processing Pipeline**: Integrate validation into input processing workflows
- **RAG Ingestion**: Validate documents before indexing and embedding
- **Tool Invocation Layer**: Validate tool arguments before execution

**Configuration:**

- **Validation Strictness**: Balance between security (strict) and usability (permissive)
- **Whitelist vs. Blacklist**: Prefer whitelist validation where possible
- **Error Handling**: Define behavior when validation fails (reject, sanitize, or alert)
- **Performance Tuning**: Optimize validation for low latency requirements

## Architecture Considerations

**Design Pattern: Defense in Depth**

Input validation implements defense-in-depth:
- **Layer 1**: Format and type validation (fast, catches obvious issues)
- **Layer 2**: Pattern-based filtering (catches known attack patterns)
- **Layer 3**: Content sanitization (removes or escapes dangerous content)
- **Layer 4**: Context-aware validation (validates based on usage context)

**System Integration:**

```
External Input → Format Validation → Pattern Filtering → Sanitization → Context Validation → System
                     ↓                    ↓                  ↓
              Type Check          Attack Detection      Content Cleanup
```

**Scalability:**

- **Performance Impact**: Validation adds latency; optimize hot paths
- **Caching**: Cache validation results for repeated inputs where safe
- **Parallel Processing**: Validate multiple inputs concurrently
- **Resource Limits**: Prevent validation from becoming DoS vector

## Testing & Validation

**Functional Testing:**

1. **Validation Coverage**: Verify all input paths have validation
2. **Correct Rejection**: Test that invalid inputs are correctly rejected
3. **Correct Acceptance**: Verify legitimate inputs pass validation
4. **Error Handling**: Test behavior when validation fails

**Security Testing:**

1. **Injection Attempts**: Test various injection techniques to verify they're blocked
2. **Encoding Bypass**: Attempt to bypass validation through encoding tricks
3. **Length Attacks**: Test resource exhaustion through extremely long inputs
4. **Type Confusion**: Attempt to confuse type validation

**Monitoring & Metrics:**

- **Validation Failure Rate**: Track frequency of validation failures
- **Rejected Input Patterns**: Analyze patterns in rejected inputs to identify attacks
- **Performance Impact**: Monitor validation latency and resource usage
- **Bypass Attempts**: Alert on inputs that pass validation but trigger downstream security controls

## Limitations & Trade-offs

**Limitations:**

- **Cannot catch all attacks**: Sophisticated obfuscation may bypass validation
- **False positives**: Overly strict validation may reject legitimate inputs
- **Context-dependent**: Some inputs are only dangerous in specific contexts
- **Evolving attacks**: New attack patterns may not be in validation rules

**Trade-offs:**

- **Security vs. Usability**: Stricter validation improves security but may hinder functionality
- **Performance vs. Coverage**: Comprehensive validation adds latency
- **Whitelist vs. Blacklist**: Whitelists are more secure but harder to maintain
- **Static vs. Dynamic**: Static validation is faster but may miss context-dependent issues

**Bypass Scenarios:**

- **Encoding Tricks**: Unicode, base64, or other encoding may bypass keyword filters
- **Context Confusion**: Inputs safe in one context may be dangerous in another
- **Multi-Step Attacks**: Attacks that split malicious content across multiple inputs
- **Novel Patterns**: Completely new attack patterns not yet in validation rules

## Related Controls

This control works best when combined with:

- **[[defenses/instruction-hierarchy-architecture|Instruction Hierarchy Architecture]]**: Hierarchy provides structural separation; validation filters malicious content
- **[[defenses/anomaly-detection-architecture|Anomaly Detection Architecture]]**: Detection catches attacks that bypass validation
- **[[defenses/least-privilege-implementation|Least Privilege Tool Implementation]]**: Validation prevents injection; least privilege limits impact
- **[[defenses/source-validation-and-trust-scoring|Source Validation & Trust Scoring]]**: Validates data sources before ingestion

[[methodology/trust-boundaries-overview|See [Controls Indexes]] for complete control catalogs]

## Framework References

**NIST AI RMF:**
- MAP 2.1: Trustworthiness characteristics are identified
- MEASURE 2.3: AI system performance or assurance criteria are measured
- MANAGE 1.1: Determination of whether AI system achieves intended purpose

**OWASP LLM Top 10:**
- LLM01: Prompt Injection (input validation is a key mitigation)
- LLM07: Insecure Plugin Design (tool argument validation)

**MITRE ATLAS:**
- Defensive techniques for input validation and sanitization

## References

- [[attacks/prompt-injection|Prompt Injection Issue]] - Validation approaches for injection prevention
- [[attacks/insecure-prompt-assembly|Insecure Prompt Assembly Issue]] - Secure assembly patterns
- [[attacks/tool-privilege-escalation|Tool Privilege Escalation Issue]] - Tool argument validation
- [[methodology/phase-5-execution|Methodology: Phase 5 Execution]] - Testing validation effectiveness

Commit message:

Sprint 2: Enrich frontmatter with target, access, severity, atlas, description
- Added target/ tags to all 39 attacks and 28 defenses
- Added access/ tags (black-box/gray-box/white-box) to all 39 attacks
- Added severity/ tags (critical/high/medium) to all 39 attacks
- Added atlas/ ATLAS technique IDs to 22 additional attacks (11 already had them)
- Added description field to all notes missing it
- 17 attacks correctly have no ATLAS mapping (operational/config issues)

defenses/input-validation-patterns.md, after:

---
description: "Cross-boundary patterns for validating and sanitizing user inputs, RAG content, and external data before processing by AI systems."
tags:
  - trust-boundary/agent-runtime
  - trust-boundary/data-knowledge
  - trust-boundary/model
  - type/defense
  - target/llm-app
  - target/agent
  - target/rag-system
---
# Input Validation Patterns

## Summary

Input validation patterns are cross-boundary preventive controls that validate, sanitize, and filter all inputs entering AI systems before they reach models, tools, or knowledge stores. This control addresses the fundamental security principle of never trusting external input by implementing comprehensive validation at system boundaries. Input validation prevents a wide range of attacks including prompt injection, injection attacks in tool arguments, RAG poisoning, and various injection-based exploits. While validation alone cannot prevent all attacks, it serves as a critical first line of defense that raises the bar for attackers and reduces the attack surface.

## Applicable Issues

This control addresses the following security issues across multiple boundaries:

**Model Boundary:**
- **[[attacks/prompt-injection|Prompt Injection]]**: Filters meta-instructions, role-play keywords, and injection patterns from user inputs
- **[[attacks/jailbreak-policy-bypass|Jailbreak & Policy Bypass]]**: Validates inputs for jailbreak techniques and policy bypass attempts

**Data/Knowledge Boundary:**
- **[[attacks/rag-data-poisoning|RAG Data Poisoning]]**: Validates documents before ingestion into knowledge bases
- **[[attacks/embedding-poisoning|Embedding Poisoning]]**: Validates embedding inputs for manipulation attempts

**Application/Agent Runtime Boundary:**
- **[[attacks/insecure-prompt-assembly|Insecure Prompt Assembly]]**: Validates components before prompt assembly
- **[[attacks/insufficient-output-encoding|Insufficient Output Encoding]]**: Validates outputs before encoding to prevent injection
- **[[attacks/tool-privilege-escalation|Tool Privilege Escalation]]**: Validates tool arguments to prevent injection-based privilege escalation
- **[[attacks/unsafe-tool-invocation|Unsafe Tool Invocation]]**: Validates tool parameters before execution

**Deployment/Governance Boundary:**
- **[[attacks/api-authentication-bypass|API Authentication Bypass]]**: Validates authentication inputs
- **[[attacks/secrets-in-prompts-and-logs|Secrets in Prompts and Logs]]**: Filters sensitive data from inputs

[[methodology/trust-boundaries-overview|See [Trust Boundaries Overview]] for complete issue catalogs]

## Implementation Approach

**Core Components:**

1. **Validation Layers**
   - **Format Validation**: Verify inputs match expected formats (JSON, text, structured data)
   - **Type Validation**: Ensure data types match expected types (string, number, boolean)
   - **Length Validation**: Enforce maximum length limits to prevent resource exhaustion
   - **Character Validation**: Filter or reject dangerous characters and encoding tricks

2. **Pattern-Based Filtering**
   - **Keyword Filtering**: Detect and block known attack keywords (with awareness of limitations)
   - **Regex Pattern Matching**: Identify injection patterns, SQL injection, path traversal
   - **Encoding Detection**: Detect obfuscation attempts (Unicode, base64, URL encoding)
   - **Structure Analysis**: Validate input structure matches expected patterns

3. **Content Sanitization**
   - **HTML/XML Sanitization**: Strip or escape markup that could enable injection
   - **SQL Parameterization**: Use prepared statements, never string concatenation
   - **Path Normalization**: Resolve and validate file paths to prevent traversal
   - **Command Sanitization**: Validate command arguments to prevent shell injection

**Integration Points:**

- **API Gateway**: Validate all API inputs before routing to services
- **Input Processing Pipeline**: Integrate validation into input processing workflows
- **RAG Ingestion**: Validate documents before indexing and embedding
- **Tool Invocation Layer**: Validate tool arguments before execution

**Configuration:**

- **Validation Strictness**: Balance between security (strict) and usability (permissive)
- **Whitelist vs. Blacklist**: Prefer whitelist validation where possible
- **Error Handling**: Define behavior when validation fails (reject, sanitize, or alert)
- **Performance Tuning**: Optimize validation for low latency requirements

## Architecture Considerations

**Design Pattern: Defense in Depth**

Input validation implements defense-in-depth:
- **Layer 1**: Format and type validation (fast, catches obvious issues)
- **Layer 2**: Pattern-based filtering (catches known attack patterns)
- **Layer 3**: Content sanitization (removes or escapes dangerous content)
- **Layer 4**: Context-aware validation (validates based on usage context)

**System Integration:**

```
External Input → Format Validation → Pattern Filtering → Sanitization → Context Validation → System
                     ↓                    ↓                  ↓
              Type Check          Attack Detection      Content Cleanup
```

**Scalability:**

- **Performance Impact**: Validation adds latency; optimize hot paths
- **Caching**: Cache validation results for repeated inputs where safe
- **Parallel Processing**: Validate multiple inputs concurrently
- **Resource Limits**: Prevent validation from becoming DoS vector

## Testing & Validation

**Functional Testing:**

1. **Validation Coverage**: Verify all input paths have validation
2. **Correct Rejection**: Test that invalid inputs are correctly rejected
3. **Correct Acceptance**: Verify legitimate inputs pass validation
4. **Error Handling**: Test behavior when validation fails

**Security Testing:**

1. **Injection Attempts**: Test various injection techniques to verify they're blocked
2. **Encoding Bypass**: Attempt to bypass validation through encoding tricks
3. **Length Attacks**: Test resource exhaustion through extremely long inputs
4. **Type Confusion**: Attempt to confuse type validation

**Monitoring & Metrics:**

- **Validation Failure Rate**: Track frequency of validation failures
- **Rejected Input Patterns**: Analyze patterns in rejected inputs to identify attacks
- **Performance Impact**: Monitor validation latency and resource usage
- **Bypass Attempts**: Alert on inputs that pass validation but trigger downstream security controls

## Limitations & Trade-offs

**Limitations:**

- **Cannot catch all attacks**: Sophisticated obfuscation may bypass validation
- **False positives**: Overly strict validation may reject legitimate inputs
- **Context-dependent**: Some inputs are only dangerous in specific contexts
- **Evolving attacks**: New attack patterns may not be in validation rules

**Trade-offs:**

- **Security vs. Usability**: Stricter validation improves security but may hinder functionality
- **Performance vs. Coverage**: Comprehensive validation adds latency
- **Whitelist vs. Blacklist**: Whitelists are more secure but harder to maintain
- **Static vs. Dynamic**: Static validation is faster but may miss context-dependent issues

**Bypass Scenarios:**

- **Encoding Tricks**: Unicode, base64, or other encoding may bypass keyword filters
- **Context Confusion**: Inputs safe in one context may be dangerous in another
- **Multi-Step Attacks**: Attacks that split malicious content across multiple inputs
- **Novel Patterns**: Completely new attack patterns not yet in validation rules

## Related Controls

This control works best when combined with:

- **[[defenses/instruction-hierarchy-architecture|Instruction Hierarchy Architecture]]**: Hierarchy provides structural separation; validation filters malicious content
- **[[defenses/anomaly-detection-architecture|Anomaly Detection Architecture]]**: Detection catches attacks that bypass validation
- **[[defenses/least-privilege-implementation|Least Privilege Tool Implementation]]**: Validation prevents injection; least privilege limits impact
- **[[defenses/source-validation-and-trust-scoring|Source Validation & Trust Scoring]]**: Validates data sources before ingestion

[[methodology/trust-boundaries-overview|See [Controls Indexes]] for complete control catalogs]

## Framework References

**NIST AI RMF:**
- MAP 2.1: Trustworthiness characteristics are identified
- MEASURE 2.3: AI system performance or assurance criteria are measured
- MANAGE 1.1: Determination of whether AI system achieves intended purpose

**OWASP LLM Top 10:**
- LLM01: Prompt Injection (input validation is a key mitigation)
- LLM07: Insecure Plugin Design (tool argument validation)

**MITRE ATLAS:**
- Defensive techniques for input validation and sanitization

## References

- [[attacks/prompt-injection|Prompt Injection Issue]] - Validation approaches for injection prevention
- [[attacks/insecure-prompt-assembly|Insecure Prompt Assembly Issue]] - Secure assembly patterns
- [[attacks/tool-privilege-escalation|Tool Privilege Escalation Issue]] - Tool argument validation
- [[methodology/phase-5-execution|Methodology: Phase 5 Execution]] - Testing validation effectiveness
