defenses/llm-development-lifecycle-security.md, before:

---
tags:
  - needs-review
  - source/ai-native-llm-security
  - trust-boundary/deployment-governance
  - type/defense
created: 2026-02-12
source: [[sources/bibliography#AI-Native LLM Security]]
pages: "249-276"
---
# LLM Development Lifecycle Security

Security integrated into every phase of LLM development — from data curation through deployment and monitoring. Aligns with OWASP Top 10 for LLMs, OWASP GenAI Security Project, NIST AI RMF, and MITRE ATLAS.

**Core Principle:** Vulnerabilities introduced during training become embedded in the model and may require complete retraining to address. Prevention during development is far cheaper than post-deployment remediation.

## Phase 1: Secure Data Collection & Curation

### Data Collection Security
- Define precise data boundaries before collection (needed types, exclusion criteria, demographic representation)
- **Source verification:** Reputation analysis, cryptographic checksums (SHA-256), chain of custody documentation
- Encrypted transfer channels, least-privilege access controls, encrypted storage with key management
- **Tools:** Great Expectations (data quality validation), AWS Macie (PII detection)

### Data Curation
- **Multi-layered content filtering:** Automated scanning (OpenAI Moderation API, Azure Content Moderator, Perspective API) + human review for flagged content
- **Security-focused metadata:** Sensitivity level tagging, provenance tracking, content warning flags
- **Bias mitigation:** Demographic analysis, balanced representation across perspectives, augmentation for minority classes
- **Deduplication + quality control:** Semantic similarity scoring, linguistic quality metrics, factual consistency checks, relevance scoring

### Secure Preprocessing
- **Anonymization:** Safe Harbor method (18 identifier types), K-anonymity, differential privacy, synthetic data via GANs
- **Tools:** Microsoft Presidio (PII detection/anonymization), OpenMined (privacy-preserving ML), TensorFlow Privacy (differential privacy)
- **Adversarial sanitization:** Scan for known adversarial patterns, hidden instructions ("Ignore previous instructions and..."), steganographic techniques
- **Security-focused augmentation:** Generate examples of prompt injection patterns, policy boundary cases, attack scenarios — properly labeled for the model to learn resistance

### Case Study: Financial LLM Pipeline
Three-phase approach:
1. **Foundation:** Data governance framework (public/internal/confidential/restricted), multi-tier source verification (automated → reputation → human), encrypted storage (HashiCorp Vault), compartmentalized access
2. **Curation:** MNPI filtering with specialized NLP, bias mitigation across market perspectives, differential privacy, adversarial augmentation (market manipulation, prompt injection, data extraction)
3. **Monitoring:** Real-time compliance monitoring, drift detection, immutable audit trails

## Phase 2: Protecting Model Training & Validation

### Training Environment Security
- Network isolation for training clusters
- Least-privilege access with MFA for all access points
- Security review of all training code before deployment
- Strict version control for scripts/configurations
- Container security for consistent runtime environments
- **Differential training analysis:** Run multiple iterations with variations, compare results — discrepancies signal poisoned data or targeted attacks

### Poisoning & Backdoor Prevention
Three attack types to defend against:

| Attack Type | Target | Defense |
|------------|--------|---------|
| **Data poisoning** | Training dataset | Data provenance tracking, runtime anomaly detection (loss spikes, gradient magnitude changes, unusual activations) |
| **Weight poisoning** | Model parameters/checkpoints | Cryptographic verification, secure weight transfer, integrity monitoring, segregation of duties |
| **Backdoor implantation** | Hidden trigger-response functionality | Trigger detection techniques, adversarial testing, neural cleanse methods |

### Robust Training Methodologies
- **Adversarial training:** Include prompt injection, jailbreaking, adversarial inputs in training (labeled for resistance)
- **Multi-objective training:** Balance performance metrics with explicit security objectives (jailbreak resistance, safety adherence, data leakage prevention)
- **Red teaming during training:** Dedicated adversarial teams systematically probing for vulnerabilities, findings fed back into training
- **Differential privacy training:** Calibrated noise limiting any single example's influence, formal data protection guarantees
- **Tools:** Microsoft Counterfit (adversarial testing for AI), IBM ART (adversarial robustness toolkit)

### Security Validation
- Security-focused validation datasets (prompt injections, policy boundary tests, data leakage triggers)
- Interpretability analysis (attention visualization, concept analysis, neuron activation studies)
- Formal verification of specific security properties
- Red team validation as final pre-deployment gate

## Phase 3: Secure Deployment & Runtime

### Deployment Architecture
- Containerized deployment with strict resource limits
- Network segmentation isolating model serving from other components
- Encrypted model weights at rest and in transit
- Secure model loading with integrity verification

### Authentication & Access Control
- API-level authentication (OAuth 2.0, JWT)
- Fine-grained authorization per model endpoint
- Rate limiting and quota management
- Session management with proper timeout policies

### Runtime Protection
- Input validation and sanitization layers
- Output filtering for harmful/sensitive content
- Resource monitoring preventing DoS
- Anomaly detection on inference patterns

## Phase 4: Continuous Monitoring & Incident Response

### Monitoring
- Performance metric tracking (accuracy, latency, resource utilization)
- Behavioral drift detection (output distribution changes)
- Security event monitoring (unusual access patterns, spike detection)
- Compliance monitoring against regulatory requirements

### Auditing
- Regular security assessments and penetration testing
- Model behavior audits against safety benchmarks
- Data access and usage audit trails
- Vulnerability scanning of dependencies and infrastructure

### Incident Response
- LLM-specific incident response playbooks
- Model rollback capabilities
- Forensic data collection (prompts, outputs, system state)
- Communication procedures for stakeholder notification

## Related Notes

- [[defenses/secure-llm-system-architecture|Secure LLM System Architecture]]
- [[defenses/owasp-llm-mitigation-strategies|OWASP LLM Mitigation Strategies]]
- [[defenses/adversarial-training|Adversarial Training]]
- [[attacks/data-poisoning-attacks|Data Poisoning Attacks]]
- [[methodology/trust-boundary-mapping-llm-architectures|Trust Boundary Mapping]]

> Source: [[sources/bibliography#AI-Native LLM Security]], pp. 249-276

Commit message:

Sprint 2: Enrich frontmatter with target, access, severity, atlas, description
- Added target/ tags to all 39 attacks and 28 defenses
- Added access/ tags (black-box/gray-box/white-box) to all 39 attacks
- Added severity/ tags (critical/high/medium) to all 39 attacks
- Added atlas/ ATLAS technique IDs to 22 additional attacks (11 already had them)
- Added description field to all notes missing it
- 17 attacks correctly have no ATLAS mapping (operational/config issues)

defenses/llm-development-lifecycle-security.md, after:

---
description: "Security practices across the LLM development lifecycle from data to deployment"
tags:
  - needs-review
  - source/ai-native-llm-security
  - trust-boundary/deployment-governance
  - type/defense
  - target/ml-pipeline
created: 2026-02-12
source: [['sources/bibliography#AI-Native LLM Security']]
pages: "249-276"
---
# LLM Development Lifecycle Security

Security integrated into every phase of LLM development — from data curation through deployment and monitoring. Aligns with OWASP Top 10 for LLMs, OWASP GenAI Security Project, NIST AI RMF, and MITRE ATLAS.

**Core Principle:** Vulnerabilities introduced during training become embedded in the model and may require complete retraining to address. Prevention during development is far cheaper than post-deployment remediation.

## Phase 1: Secure Data Collection & Curation

### Data Collection Security
- Define precise data boundaries before collection (needed types, exclusion criteria, demographic representation)
- **Source verification:** Reputation analysis, cryptographic checksums (SHA-256), chain of custody documentation
- Encrypted transfer channels, least-privilege access controls, encrypted storage with key management
- **Tools:** Great Expectations (data quality validation), AWS Macie (PII detection)

### Data Curation
- **Multi-layered content filtering:** Automated scanning (OpenAI Moderation API, Azure Content Moderator, Perspective API) + human review for flagged content
- **Security-focused metadata:** Sensitivity level tagging, provenance tracking, content warning flags
- **Bias mitigation:** Demographic analysis, balanced representation across perspectives, augmentation for minority classes
- **Deduplication + quality control:** Semantic similarity scoring, linguistic quality metrics, factual consistency checks, relevance scoring

### Secure Preprocessing
- **Anonymization:** Safe Harbor method (18 identifier types), K-anonymity, differential privacy, synthetic data via GANs
- **Tools:** Microsoft Presidio (PII detection/anonymization), OpenMined (privacy-preserving ML), TensorFlow Privacy (differential privacy)
- **Adversarial sanitization:** Scan for known adversarial patterns, hidden instructions ("Ignore previous instructions and..."), steganographic techniques
- **Security-focused augmentation:** Generate examples of prompt injection patterns, policy boundary cases, attack scenarios — properly labeled for the model to learn resistance

### Case Study: Financial LLM Pipeline
Three-phase approach:
1. **Foundation:** Data governance framework (public/internal/confidential/restricted), multi-tier source verification (automated → reputation → human), encrypted storage (HashiCorp Vault), compartmentalized access
2. **Curation:** MNPI filtering with specialized NLP, bias mitigation across market perspectives, differential privacy, adversarial augmentation (market manipulation, prompt injection, data extraction)
3. **Monitoring:** Real-time compliance monitoring, drift detection, immutable audit trails

## Phase 2: Protecting Model Training & Validation

### Training Environment Security
- Network isolation for training clusters
- Least-privilege access with MFA for all access points
- Security review of all training code before deployment
- Strict version control for scripts/configurations
- Container security for consistent runtime environments
- **Differential training analysis:** Run multiple iterations with variations, compare results — discrepancies signal poisoned data or targeted attacks

### Poisoning & Backdoor Prevention
Three attack types to defend against:

| Attack Type | Target | Defense |
|------------|--------|---------|
| **Data poisoning** | Training dataset | Data provenance tracking, runtime anomaly detection (loss spikes, gradient magnitude changes, unusual activations) |
| **Weight poisoning** | Model parameters/checkpoints | Cryptographic verification, secure weight transfer, integrity monitoring, segregation of duties |
| **Backdoor implantation** | Hidden trigger-response functionality | Trigger detection techniques, adversarial testing, neural cleanse methods |

### Robust Training Methodologies
- **Adversarial training:** Include prompt injection, jailbreaking, adversarial inputs in training (labeled for resistance)
- **Multi-objective training:** Balance performance metrics with explicit security objectives (jailbreak resistance, safety adherence, data leakage prevention)
- **Red teaming during training:** Dedicated adversarial teams systematically probing for vulnerabilities, findings fed back into training
- **Differential privacy training:** Calibrated noise limiting any single example's influence, formal data protection guarantees
- **Tools:** Microsoft Counterfit (adversarial testing for AI), IBM ART (adversarial robustness toolkit)

### Security Validation
- Security-focused validation datasets (prompt injections, policy boundary tests, data leakage triggers)
- Interpretability analysis (attention visualization, concept analysis, neuron activation studies)
- Formal verification of specific security properties
- Red team validation as final pre-deployment gate

## Phase 3: Secure Deployment & Runtime

### Deployment Architecture
- Containerized deployment with strict resource limits
- Network segmentation isolating model serving from other components
- Encrypted model weights at rest and in transit
- Secure model loading with integrity verification

### Authentication & Access Control
- API-level authentication (OAuth 2.0, JWT)
- Fine-grained authorization per model endpoint
- Rate limiting and quota management
- Session management with proper timeout policies

### Runtime Protection
- Input validation and sanitization layers
- Output filtering for harmful/sensitive content
- Resource monitoring preventing DoS
- Anomaly detection on inference patterns

## Phase 4: Continuous Monitoring & Incident Response

### Monitoring
- Performance metric tracking (accuracy, latency, resource utilization)
- Behavioral drift detection (output distribution changes)
- Security event monitoring (unusual access patterns, spike detection)
- Compliance monitoring against regulatory requirements

### Auditing
- Regular security assessments and penetration testing
- Model behavior audits against safety benchmarks
- Data access and usage audit trails
- Vulnerability scanning of dependencies and infrastructure

### Incident Response
- LLM-specific incident response playbooks
- Model rollback capabilities
- Forensic data collection (prompts, outputs, system state)
- Communication procedures for stakeholder notification

## Related Notes

- [[defenses/secure-llm-system-architecture|Secure LLM System Architecture]]
- [[defenses/owasp-llm-mitigation-strategies|OWASP LLM Mitigation Strategies]]
- [[defenses/adversarial-training|Adversarial Training]]
- [[attacks/data-poisoning-attacks|Data Poisoning Attacks]]
- [[methodology/trust-boundary-mapping-llm-architectures|Trust Boundary Mapping]]

> Source: [[sources/bibliography#AI-Native LLM Security]], pp. 249-276
