defenses/output-monitoring-validation.md, before:

---
tags:
  - anomaly-detection
  - control
  - runtime-defense
  - trust-boundary/model
  - type/defense
created: 2026-02-12
---
# Output Monitoring and Validation

**Type:** Runtime Detection / Post-Processing

**Principle:** Inspect model outputs before acting on them to detect unexpected behavior, anomalies, or successful attacks

**Applicability:** Cross-cutting defense providing last line of defense before damage occurs

## Core Concept

**Definition:** Monitor and validate model predictions, confidence scores, and behavior patterns at inference time to:
- Detect unexpected behavior
- Flag sensitive data in outputs
- Validate output format matches expectations
- Identify successful attacks post-execution

**Goal:** Catch attacks that bypass input defenses and model robustness

**Advantage:** Can prevent damage even after successful model compromise

## Defends Against

### 1. Adversarial Examples / Evasion Attacks

**Detection Signals:**

**Prediction Confidence Anomalies:**
- Unusually high confidence on potentially adversarial input
- Confidence distribution differs from typical

**Prediction Instability:**
- Small input perturbations cause large prediction changes
- Inconsistent predictions for similar inputs

**Activation Pattern Analysis:**
- Internal layer activations differ from clean data patterns
- Specific neurons consistently activated (potential backdoor)

**Details:** adversarial-examples-evasion-attacks#Detection of Adversarial Examples]]

### 2. Prompt Injection

**Detection Signals:**

**Unexpected Output Behavior:**
- Model reveals system prompt (prompt leakage)
- Output contains internal instructions
- Response deviates from expected task (summarization → instruction following)

**Format Violations:**
- Output doesn't match expected structure
- Unexpected content types (code in summary task)

**Sensitive Data Leakage:**
- API keys, secrets, configuration details in output
- Personal data, credentials revealed

**Details:** prompt-injection-llm-manipulation#Output Validation and Monitoring]]

### 3. Data Poisoning Effects

**Detection Signals:**

**Prediction Distribution Drift:**
- Sudden shifts in prediction distribution
- Increased predictions of rare classes
- Baseline deviation (compared to trusted historical period)

**Performance Degradation:**
- Accuracy drop on validation set
- Increased error rates
- Anomalous failure patterns

**Backdoor Activation:**
- Specific predictions triggered by rare inputs
- Clustering of misclassifications

**Details:** data-poisoning-attacks#Model Monitoring & Testing]]

## Implementation Approaches

### 1. Confidence Threshold Filtering

**Concept:** Reject predictions below/above confidence thresholds

**Example:**
```python
def validate_prediction(model_output, min_conf=0.7, max_conf=0.99):
    prediction, confidence = model_output
    
    if confidence < min_conf:
        return None, "LOW_CONFIDENCE"
    
    if confidence > max_conf:
        # Suspiciously high confidence
        return None, "ANOMALOUS_HIGH_CONFIDENCE"
    
    return prediction, "ACCEPTED"
```

**Rationale:**
- Too low: Model uncertain, may be adversarial
- Too high: Unrealistic confidence, potential attack

**Limitation:** Threshold selection difficult, adaptive attacks can match confidence range

### 2. Prediction Consistency Checks

**Concept:** Validate prediction against multiple checks or ensemble

**Example:**
```python
def consistency_check(input, main_model, reference_models):
    main_pred = main_model(input)
    reference_preds = [model(input) for model in reference_models]
    
    # Check agreement
    if all(pred == main_pred for pred in reference_preds):
        return main_pred, "CONSISTENT"
    else:
        return None, "INCONSISTENT_PREDICTIONS"
```

**Benefit:** Adversarial examples often don't transfer well to diverse models

**Cost:** Multiple model inferences (computational overhead)

### 3. Output Content Filtering

**Concept:** Scan output for sensitive information or unexpected patterns

**Example:**
```python
import re

def filter_output(text):
    # Check for API keys
    if re.search(r'sk-[a-zA-Z0-9]{32,}', text):
        return None, "API_KEY_DETECTED"
    
    # Check for system prompt leakage
    if "system:" in text.lower() or "instructions:" in text.lower():
        return None, "POTENTIAL_PROMPT_LEAKAGE"
    
    # Check for code execution attempts
    if re.search(r'(exec|eval|import)\s*\(', text):
        return None, "CODE_EXECUTION_DETECTED"
    
    return text, "SAFE"
```

**Benefit:** Catches specific attack outcomes

**Limitation:** Pattern-based, can be bypassed with obfuscation

### 4. Statistical Drift Detection

**Concept:** Monitor prediction distribution over time, detect deviations

**Example:**
```python
from scipy.stats import ks_2samp

class DriftDetector:
    def __init__(self, baseline_predictions):
        self.baseline = baseline_predictions
    
    def check_drift(self, recent_predictions, threshold=0.05):
        # Kolmogorov-Smirnov test
        statistic, p_value = ks_2samp(self.baseline, recent_predictions)
        
        if p_value < threshold:
            return "DRIFT_DETECTED", statistic
        else:
            return "NO_DRIFT", statistic
```

**Benefit:** Detects gradual poisoning effects, distribution shifts

**Use case:** Continuous monitoring in production

### 5. Rate Limiting and Anomaly Detection

**Concept:** Track request patterns, detect suspicious behavior

**Example:**
```python
class RequestMonitor:
    def __init__(self):
        self.request_counts = defaultdict(int)
        self.last_reset = time.time()
    
    def check_rate(self, user_id, max_per_hour=100):
        # Reset hourly
        if time.time() - self.last_reset > 3600:
            self.request_counts.clear()
            self.last_reset = time.time()
        
        self.request_counts[user_id] += 1
        
        if self.request_counts[user_id] > max_per_hour:
            return "RATE_LIMIT_EXCEEDED"
        
        return "OK"
```

**Benefit:** Prevents query-based attacks (black-box evasion, model extraction)

**Application:** API endpoints, production services

## Monitoring Metrics

### 1. Prediction Metrics

**Track:**
- Prediction distribution (class frequencies)
- Confidence score distribution
- Prediction entropy
- Top-k accuracy

**Alert on:**
- Sudden distribution shifts
- Confidence anomalies
- Entropy spikes/drops

### 2. Performance Metrics

**Track:**
- Accuracy on validation set (if available)
- Error rates
- Latency (can indicate attacks)
- Resource usage

**Alert on:**
- Accuracy drops
- Error rate increases
- Unusual latency patterns

### 3. Security Metrics

**Track:**
- Rejected predictions (failed validation)
- Confidence threshold violations
- Output filter triggers
- Rate limit violations

**Alert on:**
- Spike in rejections
- Pattern of specific violations
- Coordinated attack indicators

### 4. Data Drift Metrics

**Track:**
- Input feature distributions
- KS test statistics
- Jensen-Shannon divergence
- Population Stability Index (PSI)

**Alert on:**
- Significant drift from baseline
- Sudden distribution changes

## Integration Patterns

### 1. Pre-Action Validation

**Pattern:** Validate before taking action on prediction

```python
def safe_action(input):
    prediction = model(input)
    
    validation_result, reason = validate_prediction(prediction)
    
    if validation_result is None:
        log_security_event(reason, input, prediction)
        return fallback_action()
    
    return execute_action(validation_result)
```

**Benefit:** Prevents damage from successful attacks

### 2. Human-in-the-Loop for Anomalies

**Pattern:** Flag anomalous predictions for human review

```python
def predict_with_review(input):
    prediction, confidence = model(input)
    
    if is_anomalous(prediction, confidence):
        queue_for_human_review(input, prediction)
        return "PENDING_REVIEW"
    
    return prediction
```

**Benefit:** Catches novel attacks, reduces false positives

**Cost:** Human review latency and labor

### 3. Ensemble Agreement

**Pattern:** Require agreement across multiple models

```python
def ensemble_prediction(input, models, agreement_threshold=0.8):
    predictions = [model(input) for model in models]
    
    # Calculate agreement
    most_common_pred, count = Counter(predictions).most_common(1)[0]
    agreement = count / len(predictions)
    
    if agreement >= agreement_threshold:
        return most_common_pred
    else:
        return "DISAGREEMENT"
```

**Benefit:** Robust against attacks that don't transfer

**Cost:** Multiple model inferences

### 4. Logging and Alerting

**Pattern:** Comprehensive logging for post-incident analysis

```python
def monitored_inference(input):
    start_time = time.time()
    
    prediction, confidence = model(input)
    latency = time.time() - start_time
    
    log_entry = {
        "timestamp": start_time,
        "input_hash": hash(input),
        "prediction": prediction,
        "confidence": confidence,
        "latency": latency
    }
    
    # Check for anomalies
    if is_anomalous(log_entry):
        alert_security_team(log_entry)
    
    log_to_datastore(log_entry)
    
    return prediction
```

**Benefit:** Enables forensic analysis, attack pattern detection

## Strengths

**1. Last Line of Defense**
- Catches attacks that bypass input validation and model robustness
- Can prevent damage even after successful compromise

**2. Attack-Agnostic**
- Detects anomalous behavior regardless of attack type
- Doesn't need to know specific attack algorithm

**3. Provides Telemetry**
- Logs enable attack detection and analysis
- Metrics reveal security posture over time

**4. Minimal Model Changes**
- Applied at inference/serving layer
- No model retraining required

**5. Enables Response**
- Detected attacks can trigger incident response
- Allows graceful degradation or fallback

## Limitations

**1. Reactive, Not Preventive**
- Detects attacks AFTER they've affected model
- Can't prevent model from being fooled, only catch it

**2. False Positives/Negatives**
- Thresholds difficult to tune
- Legitimate inputs may be flagged
- Sophisticated attacks may evade detection

**3. Performance Overhead**
- Additional validation adds latency
- Ensemble/consistency checks multiply inference cost
- Logging impacts throughput

**4. Requires Baseline**
- Drift detection needs clean data baseline
- Baseline may become stale over time
- Initial deployment lacks historical data

**5. Adaptive Evasion**
- Attackers can craft attacks that pass validation
- Example: Adversarial examples with confidence matching clean data
- Monitoring itself can be attacked

## Best Practices

### 1. Establish Clean Baseline

**Critical:** Monitor production on clean data to establish normal patterns

**Track:**
- Prediction distributions
- Confidence ranges
- Latency patterns
- Error rates

**Update:** Periodically refresh baseline (but verify data still clean)

### 2. Layer Multiple Checks

**Combine:**
- Confidence thresholds
- Output content filtering
- Drift detection
- Rate limiting

**Rationale:** Harder to evade multiple diverse checks

### 3. Tune Alert Thresholds

**Balance:**
- Too sensitive: Alert fatigue, false positives
- Too permissive: Miss attacks

**Approach:**
- Start conservative (low false positive rate)
- Gradually increase sensitivity based on observed attacks
- Use ROC curves to optimize threshold choice

### 4. Automate Response

**Define:**
- Automatic actions for certain violations (e.g., rate limit → block)
- Escalation paths for others (e.g., drift → alert team)

**Implement:**
- Graceful degradation (fallback to simpler model or human)
- Incident response playbooks

### 5. Regular Review

**Schedule:**
- Weekly: Review security metrics
- Monthly: Analyze alert patterns
- Quarterly: Refresh baselines, tune thresholds

**Act:**
- Investigate persistent anomalies
- Update validation rules
- Feed learnings back to model hardening

## Practical Considerations

### When to Use

**Always recommended for:**
- Production AI systems
- Security-critical applications
- High-value predictions
- Systems facing adversarial threats

**Especially important when:**
- Input validation weak or absent
- Model not adversarially trained
- Untrusted users/data sources
- Consequences of misprediction severe

### Implementation Checklist

- [ ] Define what constitutes anomalous output
- [ ] Establish clean data baseline
- [ ] Implement confidence thresholds
- [ ] Add output content filtering (if applicable)
- [ ] Set up prediction logging
- [ ] Configure alerting (thresholds, channels)
- [ ] Test with known attacks
- [ ] Deploy monitoring dashboard
- [ ] Define incident response procedures
- [ ] Schedule regular review cadence

### Monitoring Dashboard

**Key visualizations:**
- Real-time prediction distribution
- Confidence score histogram
- Alert rate over time
- Rejection reasons breakdown
- Latency percentiles
- Top anomalous inputs (sanitized)

**Tooling:** Grafana, Datadog, Prometheus, custom dashboards

## Related Techniques

- adversarial-training]] - Preventive model hardening
- input-validation-transformation]] - Input-layer defense
- adversarial-examples-evasion-attacks]] - Evasion detection
- prompt-injection-llm-manipulation]] - Prompt leakage detection
- data-poisoning-attacks]] - Drift detection for poisoning

## Key Takeaways

1. **Last line of defense** - Catches attacks that bypass earlier layers
2. **Reactive, not preventive** - Detects after model affected, can't prevent compromise
3. **Multiple check types** - Confidence, consistency, content, drift, rate limits
4. **Baseline required** - Need clean data patterns to detect anomalies
5. **Trade-offs** - Performance overhead vs. security, false positives vs. false negatives
6. **Logging critical** - Enables forensics, pattern detection, improvement
7. **Tuning essential** - Thresholds must balance sensitivity and false positive rate
8. **Combine with other defenses** - Part of defense-in-depth, not standalone
9. **Incident response** - Alerts only useful if team can respond effectively
10. **Continuous adaptation** - Monitoring must evolve as attacks and data change

## Source References

- [[sources/bibliography#Red-Teaming AI]], p. 162-163 (Adversarial example detection)
- [[sources/bibliography#Red-Teaming AI]], p. 250 (Prompt injection output monitoring)
- [[sources/bibliography#Red-Teaming AI]], p. 132 (Data poisoning drift detection)

Commit message:

Sprint 2: Enrich frontmatter with target, access, severity, atlas, description
- Added target/ tags to all 39 attacks and 28 defenses
- Added access/ tags (black-box/gray-box/white-box) to all 39 attacks
- Added severity/ tags (critical/high/medium) to all 39 attacks
- Added atlas/ ATLAS technique IDs to 22 additional attacks (11 already had them)
- Added description field to all notes missing it
- 17 attacks correctly have no ATLAS mapping (operational/config issues)

defenses/output-monitoring-validation.md, after:

---
description: "Runtime monitoring and validation of LLM outputs for quality and safety"
tags:
  - anomaly-detection
  - control
  - runtime-defense
  - trust-boundary/model
  - type/defense
  - target/llm-app
  - target/agent
created: 2026-02-12
---
# Output Monitoring and Validation

**Type:** Runtime Detection / Post-Processing

**Principle:** Inspect model outputs before acting on them to detect unexpected behavior, anomalies, or successful attacks

**Applicability:** Cross-cutting defense providing last line of defense before damage occurs

## Core Concept

**Definition:** Monitor and validate model predictions, confidence scores, and behavior patterns at inference time to:
- Detect unexpected behavior
- Flag sensitive data in outputs
- Validate output format matches expectations
- Identify successful attacks post-execution

**Goal:** Catch attacks that bypass input defenses and model robustness

**Advantage:** Can prevent damage even after successful model compromise

## Defends Against

### 1. Adversarial Examples / Evasion Attacks

**Detection Signals:**

**Prediction Confidence Anomalies:**
- Unusually high confidence on potentially adversarial input
- Confidence distribution differs from typical

**Prediction Instability:**
- Small input perturbations cause large prediction changes
- Inconsistent predictions for similar inputs

**Activation Pattern Analysis:**
- Internal layer activations differ from clean data patterns
- Specific neurons consistently activated (potential backdoor)

**Details:** adversarial-examples-evasion-attacks#Detection of Adversarial Examples]]

### 2. Prompt Injection

**Detection Signals:**

**Unexpected Output Behavior:**
- Model reveals system prompt (prompt leakage)
- Output contains internal instructions
- Response deviates from expected task (summarization → instruction following)

**Format Violations:**
- Output doesn't match expected structure
- Unexpected content types (code in summary task)

**Sensitive Data Leakage:**
- API keys, secrets, configuration details in output
- Personal data, credentials revealed

**Details:** prompt-injection-llm-manipulation#Output Validation and Monitoring]]

### 3. Data Poisoning Effects

**Detection Signals:**

**Prediction Distribution Drift:**
- Sudden shifts in prediction distribution
- Increased predictions of rare classes
- Baseline deviation (compared to trusted historical period)

**Performance Degradation:**
- Accuracy drop on validation set
- Increased error rates
- Anomalous failure patterns

**Backdoor Activation:**
- Specific predictions triggered by rare inputs
- Clustering of misclassifications

**Details:** data-poisoning-attacks#Model Monitoring & Testing]]

## Implementation Approaches

### 1. Confidence Threshold Filtering

**Concept:** Reject predictions below/above confidence thresholds

**Example:**
```python
def validate_prediction(model_output, min_conf=0.7, max_conf=0.99):
    prediction, confidence = model_output
    
    if confidence < min_conf:
        return None, "LOW_CONFIDENCE"
    
    if confidence > max_conf:
        # Suspiciously high confidence
        return None, "ANOMALOUS_HIGH_CONFIDENCE"
    
    return prediction, "ACCEPTED"
```

**Rationale:**
- Too low: Model uncertain, may be adversarial
- Too high: Unrealistic confidence, potential attack

**Limitation:** Threshold selection difficult, adaptive attacks can match confidence range

### 2. Prediction Consistency Checks

**Concept:** Validate prediction against multiple checks or ensemble

**Example:**
```python
def consistency_check(input, main_model, reference_models):
    main_pred = main_model(input)
    reference_preds = [model(input) for model in reference_models]
    
    # Check agreement
    if all(pred == main_pred for pred in reference_preds):
        return main_pred, "CONSISTENT"
    else:
        return None, "INCONSISTENT_PREDICTIONS"
```

**Benefit:** Adversarial examples often don't transfer well to diverse models

**Cost:** Multiple model inferences (computational overhead)

### 3. Output Content Filtering

**Concept:** Scan output for sensitive information or unexpected patterns

**Example:**
```python
import re

def filter_output(text):
    # Check for API keys
    if re.search(r'sk-[a-zA-Z0-9]{32,}', text):
        return None, "API_KEY_DETECTED"
    
    # Check for system prompt leakage
    if "system:" in text.lower() or "instructions:" in text.lower():
        return None, "POTENTIAL_PROMPT_LEAKAGE"
    
    # Check for code execution attempts
    if re.search(r'(exec|eval|import)\s*\(', text):
        return None, "CODE_EXECUTION_DETECTED"
    
    return text, "SAFE"
```

**Benefit:** Catches specific attack outcomes

**Limitation:** Pattern-based, can be bypassed with obfuscation

### 4. Statistical Drift Detection

**Concept:** Monitor prediction distribution over time, detect deviations

**Example:**
```python
from scipy.stats import ks_2samp

class DriftDetector:
    def __init__(self, baseline_predictions):
        self.baseline = baseline_predictions
    
    def check_drift(self, recent_predictions, threshold=0.05):
        # Kolmogorov-Smirnov test
        statistic, p_value = ks_2samp(self.baseline, recent_predictions)
        
        if p_value < threshold:
            return "DRIFT_DETECTED", statistic
        else:
            return "NO_DRIFT", statistic
```

**Benefit:** Detects gradual poisoning effects, distribution shifts

**Use case:** Continuous monitoring in production

### 5. Rate Limiting and Anomaly Detection

**Concept:** Track request patterns, detect suspicious behavior

**Example:**
```python
class RequestMonitor:
    def __init__(self):
        self.request_counts = defaultdict(int)
        self.last_reset = time.time()
    
    def check_rate(self, user_id, max_per_hour=100):
        # Reset hourly
        if time.time() - self.last_reset > 3600:
            self.request_counts.clear()
            self.last_reset = time.time()
        
        self.request_counts[user_id] += 1
        
        if self.request_counts[user_id] > max_per_hour:
            return "RATE_LIMIT_EXCEEDED"
        
        return "OK"
```

**Benefit:** Prevents query-based attacks (black-box evasion, model extraction)

**Application:** API endpoints, production services

## Monitoring Metrics

### 1. Prediction Metrics

**Track:**
- Prediction distribution (class frequencies)
- Confidence score distribution
- Prediction entropy
- Top-k accuracy

**Alert on:**
- Sudden distribution shifts
- Confidence anomalies
- Entropy spikes/drops

### 2. Performance Metrics

**Track:**
- Accuracy on validation set (if available)
- Error rates
- Latency (can indicate attacks)
- Resource usage

**Alert on:**
- Accuracy drops
- Error rate increases
- Unusual latency patterns

### 3. Security Metrics

**Track:**
- Rejected predictions (failed validation)
- Confidence threshold violations
- Output filter triggers
- Rate limit violations

**Alert on:**
- Spike in rejections
- Pattern of specific violations
- Coordinated attack indicators

### 4. Data Drift Metrics

**Track:**
- Input feature distributions
- KS test statistics
- Jensen-Shannon divergence
- Population Stability Index (PSI)

**Alert on:**
- Significant drift from baseline
- Sudden distribution changes

## Integration Patterns

### 1. Pre-Action Validation

**Pattern:** Validate before taking action on prediction

```python
def safe_action(input):
    prediction = model(input)
    
    validation_result, reason = validate_prediction(prediction)
    
    if validation_result is None:
        log_security_event(reason, input, prediction)
        return fallback_action()
    
    return execute_action(validation_result)
```

**Benefit:** Prevents damage from successful attacks

### 2. Human-in-the-Loop for Anomalies

**Pattern:** Flag anomalous predictions for human review

```python
def predict_with_review(input):
    prediction, confidence = model(input)
    
    if is_anomalous(prediction, confidence):
        queue_for_human_review(input, prediction)
        return "PENDING_REVIEW"
    
    return prediction
```

**Benefit:** Catches novel attacks, reduces false positives

**Cost:** Human review latency and labor

### 3. Ensemble Agreement

**Pattern:** Require agreement across multiple models

```python
def ensemble_prediction(input, models, agreement_threshold=0.8):
    predictions = [model(input) for model in models]
    
    # Calculate agreement
    most_common_pred, count = Counter(predictions).most_common(1)[0]
    agreement = count / len(predictions)
    
    if agreement >= agreement_threshold:
        return most_common_pred
    else:
        return "DISAGREEMENT"
```

**Benefit:** Robust against attacks that don't transfer

**Cost:** Multiple model inferences

### 4. Logging and Alerting

**Pattern:** Comprehensive logging for post-incident analysis

```python
def monitored_inference(input):
    start_time = time.time()
    
    prediction, confidence = model(input)
    latency = time.time() - start_time
    
    log_entry = {
        "timestamp": start_time,
        "input_hash": hash(input),
        "prediction": prediction,
        "confidence": confidence,
        "latency": latency
    }
    
    # Check for anomalies
    if is_anomalous(log_entry):
        alert_security_team(log_entry)
    
    log_to_datastore(log_entry)
    
    return prediction
```

**Benefit:** Enables forensic analysis, attack pattern detection

## Strengths

**1. Last Line of Defense**
- Catches attacks that bypass input validation and model robustness
- Can prevent damage even after successful compromise

**2. Attack-Agnostic**
- Detects anomalous behavior regardless of attack type
- Doesn't need to know specific attack algorithm

**3. Provides Telemetry**
- Logs enable attack detection and analysis
- Metrics reveal security posture over time

**4. Minimal Model Changes**
- Applied at inference/serving layer
- No model retraining required

**5. Enables Response**
- Detected attacks can trigger incident response
- Allows graceful degradation or fallback

## Limitations

**1. Reactive, Not Preventive**
- Detects attacks AFTER they've affected model
- Can't prevent model from being fooled, only catch it

**2. False Positives/Negatives**
- Thresholds difficult to tune
- Legitimate inputs may be flagged
- Sophisticated attacks may evade detection

**3. Performance Overhead**
- Additional validation adds latency
- Ensemble/consistency checks multiply inference cost
- Logging impacts throughput

**4. Requires Baseline**
- Drift detection needs clean data baseline
- Baseline may become stale over time
- Initial deployment lacks historical data

**5. Adaptive Evasion**
- Attackers can craft attacks that pass validation
- Example: Adversarial examples with confidence matching clean data
- Monitoring itself can be attacked

## Best Practices

### 1. Establish Clean Baseline

**Critical:** Monitor production on clean data to establish normal patterns

**Track:**
- Prediction distributions
- Confidence ranges
- Latency patterns
- Error rates

**Update:** Periodically refresh baseline (but verify data still clean)

### 2. Layer Multiple Checks

**Combine:**
- Confidence thresholds
- Output content filtering
- Drift detection
- Rate limiting

**Rationale:** Harder to evade multiple diverse checks

### 3. Tune Alert Thresholds

**Balance:**
- Too sensitive: Alert fatigue, false positives
- Too permissive: Miss attacks

**Approach:**
- Start conservative (low false positive rate)
- Gradually increase sensitivity based on observed attacks
- Use ROC curves to optimize threshold choice

### 4. Automate Response

**Define:**
- Automatic actions for certain violations (e.g., rate limit → block)
- Escalation paths for others (e.g., drift → alert team)

**Implement:**
- Graceful degradation (fallback to simpler model or human)
- Incident response playbooks

### 5. Regular Review

**Schedule:**
- Weekly: Review security metrics
- Monthly: Analyze alert patterns
- Quarterly: Refresh baselines, tune thresholds

**Act:**
- Investigate persistent anomalies
- Update validation rules
- Feed learnings back to model hardening

## Practical Considerations

### When to Use

**Always recommended for:**
- Production AI systems
- Security-critical applications
- High-value predictions
- Systems facing adversarial threats

**Especially important when:**
- Input validation weak or absent
- Model not adversarially trained
- Untrusted users/data sources
- Consequences of misprediction severe

### Implementation Checklist

- [ ] Define what constitutes anomalous output
- [ ] Establish clean data baseline
- [ ] Implement confidence thresholds
- [ ] Add output content filtering (if applicable)
- [ ] Set up prediction logging
- [ ] Configure alerting (thresholds, channels)
- [ ] Test with known attacks
- [ ] Deploy monitoring dashboard
- [ ] Define incident response procedures
- [ ] Schedule regular review cadence

### Monitoring Dashboard

**Key visualizations:**
- Real-time prediction distribution
- Confidence score histogram
- Alert rate over time
- Rejection reasons breakdown
- Latency percentiles
- Top anomalous inputs (sanitized)

**Tooling:** Grafana, Datadog, Prometheus, custom dashboards

## Related Techniques

- adversarial-training]] - Preventive model hardening
- input-validation-transformation]] - Input-layer defense
- adversarial-examples-evasion-attacks]] - Evasion detection
- prompt-injection-llm-manipulation]] - Prompt leakage detection
- data-poisoning-attacks]] - Drift detection for poisoning

## Key Takeaways

1. **Last line of defense** - Catches attacks that bypass earlier layers
2. **Reactive, not preventive** - Detects after model affected, can't prevent compromise
3. **Multiple check types** - Confidence, consistency, content, drift, rate limits
4. **Baseline required** - Need clean data patterns to detect anomalies
5. **Trade-offs** - Performance overhead vs. security, false positives vs. false negatives
6. **Logging critical** - Enables forensics, pattern detection, improvement
7. **Tuning essential** - Thresholds must balance sensitivity and false positive rate
8. **Combine with other defenses** - Part of defense-in-depth, not standalone
9. **Incident response** - Alerts only useful if team can respond effectively
10. **Continuous adaptation** - Monitoring must evolve as attacks and data change

## Source References

- [[sources/bibliography#Red-Teaming AI]], p. 162-163 (Adversarial example detection)
- [[sources/bibliography#Red-Teaming AI]], p. 250 (Prompt injection output monitoring)
- [[sources/bibliography#Red-Teaming AI]], p. 132 (Data poisoning drift detection)
